Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Donec risus erat, vulputate vel odio id, blandit efficitur lectus. Pellentesque posuere, sem sed finibus hendrerit, tortor diam scelerisque sapien, ut volutpat urna sem non dui. Pellentesque non finibus leo, at tincidunt dui. Nullam in dictum libero. Suspendisse at eros euismod, condimentum lectus nec, ultricies dui. Duis ac eros urna. Quisque a lacus malesuada, vulputate dolor non, faucibus est. Nulla quis consequat metus, vitae pharetra tortor. Cras sit amet enim scelerisque, hendrerit arcu id, commodo velit.

Etiam a sagittis mi, at posuere ante. Mauris dictum et sapien eget sollicitudin. Fusce justo orci, rutrum vitae aliquet a, lobortis quis arcu. In sed porta magna. Aenean diam velit, lobortis at nibh quis, auctor malesuada erat. Morbi vel lacus feugiat ipsum luctus finibus quis a tortor. Donec aliquet nunc scelerisque pretium finibus. Vestibulum semper nulla nec lacus convallis volutpat. Vestibulum vestibulum, lacus a maximus lacinia, mauris urna varius ante, ac tempor justo nisl ac risus. Nullam in neque sem.

Fusce sagittis turpis vel ultrices vulputate. Mauris euismod commodo risus, a fermentum magna sollicitudin a. Nam in odio at magna sodales fermentum id sit amet ex. Pellentesque a libero magna. Etiam et nibh tincidunt, euismod nulla ut, tristique mauris. Aenean rhoncus euismod ex viverra lobortis. Etiam ullamcorper viverra ex in congue. Donec vitae nibh sem. Vivamus pulvinar dolor quam, quis pharetra odio consectetur sit amet. Fusce suscipit nulla at fermentum molestie. Morbi tempor orci nec dictum tempus. Aliquam rutrum arcu felis, vitae hendrerit turpis malesuada ut. Ut orci enim, molestie nec bibendum eget, tempus ac nunc. Curabitur pulvinar purus nec elit ultricies ultricies. Fusce tempor felis ac tellus commodo efficitur.

Donec at efficitur magna. Vivamus a ante leo. Morbi gravida pharetra lorem, et rutrum arcu posuere fringilla. Phasellus a erat pharetra, blandit arcu sit amet, efficitur sem. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Vestibulum commodo libero metus. Proin suscipit, metus sit amet venenatis consectetur, risus lorem sodales orci, sed fringilla libero metus ut turpis. Pellentesque porttitor, nisi at tempor iaculis, purus est auctor turpis, ac pellentesque leo turpis id lacus. Sed eu leo sed nisi mattis elementum ut et magna. Pellentesque pretium congue pharetra. Aliquam fringilla sed leo in fermentum. Maecenas ac pretium eros. Nullam blandit nisi massa, nec gravida odio dapibus ac. Etiam maximus erat eu dolor ultricies venenatis. Morbi rhoncus vulputate eros nec fringilla. Integer mi quam, volutpat ac tempus vel, feugiat at est.

Aliquam viverra libero sit amet vestibulum pretium. Nulla placerat lacus quis lectus dapibus euismod. Phasellus laoreet augue vitae mauris volutpat, a venenatis lacus tempus. Nulla volutpat felis ac ex congue rutrum. Nulla gravida malesuada dictum. In facilisis ligula quis egestas blandit. Morbi tempus metus felis, sed pellentesque ligula laoreet tempor. Integer id ultrices augue. Duis odio elit, imperdiet a efficitur sit amet, rhoncus eu ante. Mauris pulvinar erat lacus, at lacinia tortor iaculis in. Morbi venenatis luctus elit ac mollis.

Praesent at magna mattis, iaculis urna in, hendrerit mi. Fusce ut rutrum nisi, id cursus urna. Quisque eget sem arcu. Pellentesque porta leo vitae risus pharetra eleifend. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus. Donec commodo rhoncus eros. Integer quis nulla tincidunt, ultricies sem nec, hendrerit lectus. Suspendisse faucibus iaculis nisi, et placerat justo accumsan et. Maecenas sit amet dui sapien.

Aenean rhoncus non massa eget aliquet. Etiam nec purus iaculis dui tempus bibendum. Mauris viverra erat sagittis massa finibus, vel sollicitudin erat vehicula. Nam quis velit et leo laoreet tempus. Nullam a ipsum id elit eleifend ultricies. Mauris est est, facilisis sed pretium quis, pharetra id neque. Suspendisse fringilla sodales lacinia. Suspendisse quis scelerisque mi, id condimentum ante. Phasellus sit amet sem sed augue aliquam mattis.

Nullam vitae ipsum sem. Etiam ut mi quis sem tincidunt aliquam sed id nisi. Quisque sed porta justo, sed gravida lectus. Morbi eu malesuada nulla. Sed ullamcorper urna a urna varius consequat. Nunc molestie porttitor risus, non dictum diam finibus sit amet. Aliquam bibendum malesuada lorem ut bibendum. Mauris et bibendum elit.

Donec interdum nec risus vitae congue. Sed rhoncus accumsan felis vel tristique. In placerat sed erat eu suscipit. Donec convallis sem in porta pretium. Fusce sit amet convallis lorem. Maecenas porta varius lectus, ut fermentum purus varius vel. Vivamus vestibulum magna elit, at ullamcorper erat cursus eget. Sed nunc tellus, blandit a pretium et, feugiat et tortor. In eget magna id massa tempor viverra eget in mauris. Integer porttitor est felis, vitae interdum nisl euismod in. Cras magna quam, imperdiet ac finibus a, euismod ac ipsum. Etiam sollicitudin egestas libero. Phasellus iaculis consequat volutpat. Morbi bibendum mi ac sem sagittis consectetur. Quisque mattis libero enim, ac euismod augue facilisis at.

Vivamus metus est, tincidunt nec aliquam eu, pulvinar quis ex. Morbi ex eros, auctor eu magna eget, sodales aliquet nisi. Pellentesque tincidunt lacinia pulvinar. Donec varius eget diam in bibendum. Donec in ipsum finibus, vehicula leo nec, mattis quam. Phasellus vitae orci sit amet eros mattis ultricies eu sit amet elit. Integer ut neque pulvinar, convallis enim vel, efficitur felis. Fusce ultricies fermentum quam, quis consectetur neque viverra vitae. Nullam volutpat ligula placerat porttitor euismod. Aliquam accumsan malesuada nulla non rhoncus. Vestibulum quis felis at orci pretium pretium a vitae lectus. Mauris pretium consectetur magna id euismod. Donec in vestibulum diam.

Nam at nulla lorem. Maecenas gravida eget lacus ut laoreet. Sed ornare, felis sit amet convallis vestibulum, mauris ipsum maximus dui, eu viverra libero augue quis risus. Proin mollis nisi quis suscipit consectetur. Nulla molestie finibus consequat. Curabitur euismod urna nec augue elementum, vitae varius lacus convallis. Nunc a nibh vitae lorem condimentum tempus vitae ut dui. Sed felis elit, laoreet vitae accumsan non, eleifend id arcu. Pellentesque quis augue neque. Morbi lobortis orci in nisl vehicula volutpat quis euismod leo. Mauris non arcu magna. Praesent non pharetra felis. Morbi sed sem non metus tristique pharetra.

Integer non nisi sem. In congue risus augue, non mattis neque aliquam nec. Pellentesque sodales vestibulum felis ac varius. Nullam a iaculis arcu. Morbi vulputate interdum velit, consectetur tincidunt leo fermentum nec. Nunc a leo aliquam, tempus turpis vitae, imperdiet arcu. Cras hendrerit sapien a vestibulum gravida. Vestibulum sit amet consectetur erat, non cursus justo. In sagittis, mauris in elementum finibus, mauris lacus porta leo, ac venenatis nibh enim in augue. Aliquam et tellus quis justo pretium varius.

Sed accumsan urna id massa tristique aliquet. Duis vehicula, lectus quis posuere mattis, diam massa condimentum nunc, vitae dignissim urna justo in nibh. Etiam pharetra nunc et nunc sollicitudin, quis dapibus nibh facilisis. Morbi pellentesque nisl et mauris facilisis egestas. Fusce tempor lorem id sem lobortis, eget finibus ipsum porttitor. Pellentesque fermentum, erat sed condimentum finibus, purus erat consequat turpis, quis dictum risus ipsum at leo. Pellentesque sodales nisi lectus, sit amet egestas lectus scelerisque sit amet. Morbi a augue a elit sodales ultrices id quis diam. Curabitur mattis, dolor eu finibus semper, magna nibh accumsan est, non scelerisque mauris magna sed ex. Nam eleifend a velit sit amet placerat. Pellentesque vel cursus diam, sed scelerisque ante. Donec lacus augue, cursus at felis varius, accumsan bibendum neque. Vestibulum lacinia, orci eu posuere volutpat, neque metus interdum orci, sit amet dignissim nulla nunc sit amet erat. Sed lacinia ligula dolor, ac sollicitudin justo maximus a.

Vestibulum purus odio, viverra ac congue at, sollicitudin in orci. Cras quis auctor lorem. Donec non est justo. Duis felis ex, elementum vitae ultrices id, dignissim et nisl. Ut et lorem bibendum, porttitor magna eu, blandit nulla. Integer finibus sit amet dolor ut faucibus. Maecenas non sodales neque. Aliquam egestas vitae arcu eu mattis. Phasellus facilisis lacus id turpis accumsan mollis. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Aenean ut rutrum nisi, vitae fringilla diam. Pellentesque quis lacinia risus. Proin interdum ex nec ullamcorper rutrum. Donec finibus iaculis fermentum. Duis dictum, nisi non dapibus pulvinar, justo dui varius felis, nec fermentum libero nibh ut purus. Sed laoreet vehicula dapibus.

Nam facilisis rhoncus lacus non ornare. Nunc viverra augue ac mi molestie, et posuere sem aliquam. Donec commodo consectetur nisi non semper. Vestibulum ut nibh eu orci elementum pharetra. Fusce mattis, justo ac egestas malesuada, odio ipsum volutpat tellus, in posuere ante arcu vitae neque. Proin quis neque enim. Aenean a posuere ante.

Phasellus luctus, ante a pulvinar pulvinar, purus ipsum hendrerit turpis, vitae gravida augue diam sit amet quam. Aenean fringilla, dolor eu rhoncus ultricies, tellus arcu rutrum ipsum, vitae volutpat massa lectus et metus. Etiam sit amet vestibulum ligula. Quisque ultrices tincidunt tortor et vulputate. Cras tempus nisi ac quam ultrices condimentum. Nullam sollicitudin sapien pellentesque, convallis urna eu, ornare tortor. Aenean non velit non magna ultrices blandit eget eu libero. Nullam luctus elementum sollicitudin. Aliquam porttitor neque commodo eros volutpat scelerisque. Nullam bibendum augue eu pretium posuere. Etiam scelerisque dignissim mi, at maximus nunc porta malesuada. Cras a mauris in enim porta pharetra at ac urna. Proin scelerisque dignissim dapibus. Maecenas blandit metus vitae odio feugiat, ut tempor sapien dapibus.

Nulla aliquet molestie justo vel suscipit. Duis interdum ipsum felis, eu laoreet elit rhoncus a. Quisque eros lorem, aliquet id dictum eu, ornare et purus. Donec leo velit, feugiat a finibus at, ullamcorper vitae nulla. Donec mi purus, rhoncus quis molestie id, mattis a dui. Ut dignissim velit vel enim feugiat, et placerat dolor porta. Integer blandit rutrum malesuada. Nunc vitae odio vitae nulla tincidunt vulputate. Vestibulum pellentesque velit ac risus scelerisque, nec condimentum sem faucibus. Phasellus placerat volutpat viverra. Aenean vel tincidunt purus. Curabitur neque quam, aliquet nec mauris eu, accumsan ullamcorper tortor. Nulla accumsan odio dolor, sed iaculis enim vestibulum mollis.

Morbi posuere tempor dui id porttitor. Sed quis tellus a massa imperdiet elementum. Nullam et ipsum turpis. Integer nec elit quis justo facilisis rhoncus vitae in tortor. Morbi bibendum felis risus, nec venenatis turpis porttitor sit amet. Aliquam vitae nunc venenatis, maximus nunc sed, rutrum enim. Proin eu auctor velit. Sed eget efficitur libero, id congue lectus. Pellentesque finibus, nulla vel facilisis efficitur, nisi leo viverra quam, ut lacinia metus nisi at lacus. Proin eget turpis laoreet, placerat erat sed, blandit velit. Sed laoreet faucibus bibendum. Sed pretium accumsan sapien, vel maximus diam dapibus nec. In non semper metus. Aliquam hendrerit, odio sed feugiat vulputate, velit nunc lobortis mi, quis semper risus felis nec elit. Curabitur venenatis augue quis est convallis dapibus.

Vivamus elementum ex non ante cursus consequat. Nam semper tristique metus auctor cursus. Pellentesque enim orci, consectetur non justo quis, condimentum tincidunt urna. Etiam dui est, tincidunt quis metus non, tempus vehicula nunc. Maecenas in tellus at sapien fermentum consectetur. Mauris vehicula, metus non suscipit varius, neque quam viverra sapien, eget volutpat lorem urna ut massa. Quisque in interdum dui. Duis quis elit pellentesque, rhoncus mi vel, luctus justo. Maecenas at aliquam elit, eget tempus dui. Maecenas tempor enim leo, in dictum erat sodales nec.

Phasellus et ipsum sit amet est hendrerit maximus ac sed lorem. Cras placerat lorem nisi, eu placerat lorem euismod nec. Vestibulum blandit venenatis erat, id tincidunt nulla pellentesque et. Nulla sodales purus purus, sed maximus metus tempus vel. Integer laoreet pharetra leo, non viverra massa interdum eu. Etiam id vulputate tellus, vel malesuada lectus. Fusce sed feugiat lorem.

Integer et venenatis sem. Aliquam erat volutpat. Vestibulum non lacinia mi. Ut ac nulla metus. Vivamus suscipit viverra eros sit amet fringilla. Sed aliquet faucibus erat tempor vestibulum. Praesent accumsan, velit ut facilisis dignissim, enim sem maximus orci, vel vestibulum neque arcu vitae arcu. Aenean efficitur, felis nec hendrerit suscipit, magna purus pretium purus, ut accumsan augue sapien sed mauris. Quisque varius pulvinar accumsan. Cras et volutpat purus. Cras lobortis quam quis nulla varius interdum. Aenean ultricies ligula tellus, id vestibulum orci feugiat ac.

Pellentesque et faucibus justo. In euismod, ligula in blandit aliquet, ante lorem mattis nulla, eget egestas justo nibh nec est. Proin sit amet cursus turpis, et volutpat enim. Sed condimentum porta mi vitae vulputate. Maecenas ut turpis quam. Aenean id orci sem. Donec odio nisl, fringilla sed quam sit amet, porta imperdiet diam. Ut cursus ex eros, vitae cursus tellus vehicula vitae. Fusce commodo tincidunt malesuada. Duis vitae velit consectetur turpis elementum semper. Nam consequat orci dui. Duis vehicula lacus in nibh sagittis, non eleifend felis ultricies. Fusce ac volutpat ipsum. Nam viverra eros in orci bibendum, nec pharetra erat malesuada. Vestibulum dictum dui vel finibus pellentesque. Vivamus tincidunt risus eu urna ullamcorper, in commodo massa tristique.

Etiam auctor sodales sem, at rhoncus diam maximus ac. Integer maximus mi odio, in malesuada arcu pellentesque vel. Praesent bibendum ut purus in sagittis. Maecenas tincidunt ex nec lacus accumsan, eu tincidunt orci consequat. Nunc felis est, tempor sed erat a, fermentum consequat metus. Quisque blandit lobortis augue, et posuere nunc molestie nec. Donec non arcu tellus.

Etiam non felis nisl. Sed ultricies augue vel ipsum tincidunt, a sagittis justo maximus. Fusce metus nulla, pellentesque eget nisl at, congue aliquet felis. Mauris et placerat risus. Vivamus mollis ipsum orci, a egestas elit sollicitudin vel. Sed gravida magna eget auctor ornare. Donec ac cursus libero. Suspendisse sed mi in enim feugiat varius. Phasellus id diam urna. Phasellus et ultrices ante, non sagittis ex. Maecenas finibus varius bibendum. Etiam sagittis, dui id vehicula interdum, mauris tellus porttitor augue, nec mattis dui est non quam. Pellentesque porta, metus sit amet accumsan rutrum, felis leo hendrerit ipsum, sed ultrices elit tellus id nisl. Nulla porttitor arcu id turpis congue pretium. Praesent sagittis feugiat lorem, quis efficitur quam sodales vitae.

Nam pulvinar enim risus, quis eleifend mauris ultrices ut. Donec eu eros eget sem rutrum auctor. Nullam sodales venenatis semper. Fusce ultricies vitae sem at sagittis. Sed odio velit, tincidunt non tellus a, pulvinar tincidunt nisl. Nulla quis eros varius, pharetra orci eget, porttitor tellus. Morbi eget leo arcu. Proin eu felis purus. Morbi luctus odio blandit pretium condimentum. Vivamus ullamcorper, risus nec mollis vulputate, dui massa placerat orci, nec feugiat leo lectus nec diam.

Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Mauris elementum, mi in maximus condimentum, lorem nibh fringilla sem, ut convallis sem diam scelerisque libero. Nulla placerat dolor accumsan, mollis mauris in, auctor est. Integer euismod eleifend turpis, et lacinia odio porta posuere. Vivamus ullamcorper scelerisque elit, nec tristique nisl consequat vitae. Proin ac purus ante. Aenean efficitur ut quam sit amet bibendum. Nulla id turpis sem. Fusce placerat justo cursus nunc congue, egestas suscipit ante convallis. Donec ultrices condimentum turpis at egestas. In mollis egestas mauris eu efficitur. Quisque imperdiet eget ligula sit amet euismod. Ut non consectetur ligula.

Aenean fermentum dui elit, a tincidunt nulla tempus ut. Ut eu ante faucibus, tincidunt tellus vel, molestie eros. Suspendisse congue dolor quis libero pellentesque, at sollicitudin enim placerat. Donec pharetra sapien tortor, ac tristique enim imperdiet ut. In ac dapibus felis. Suspendisse potenti. Maecenas at dapibus est. Aliquam convallis tortor libero, ut maximus ipsum semper quis. Pellentesque sollicitudin metus ut ornare hendrerit. Vivamus fermentum odio vel magna sollicitudin bibendum. Suspendisse tincidunt massa nec lectus pulvinar consequat.

Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus. Quisque felis nisi, lacinia sed tellus ac, porttitor gravida justo. Donec eget commodo nisl, et viverra felis. Aliquam erat volutpat. Aliquam tincidunt urna in elementum lacinia. Donec bibendum eu ante nec pretium. Fusce eleifend purus pellentesque mattis euismod. Phasellus et purus rhoncus risus lobortis auctor. Proin euismod massa eget justo pulvinar blandit. Quisque finibus tortor vitae cursus iaculis. Etiam ligula nisl, bibendum in tincidunt ut, pharetra id nisl.

Nulla ut mi sapien. Sed dictum massa erat, eget sollicitudin erat euismod eu. Nam sit amet odio felis. Phasellus sed dapibus est. Pellentesque tincidunt tincidunt tortor. Praesent ultrices ex et aliquet aliquam. Etiam a gravida orci. Quisque vehicula erat risus, luctus viverra magna elementum ac. Nulla congue porta mauris, non mollis velit volutpat eget. Nullam id sollicitudin nisl.

Vestibulum et leo eu libero vestibulum finibus. Curabitur quis aliquam velit. Donec turpis augue, rutrum sodales sapien in, ultricies interdum eros. In rhoncus tempus lacus ut lobortis. Nulla pharetra maximus viverra. Cras euismod diam vitae metus interdum rutrum. Morbi iaculis sit amet nunc a fermentum. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Quisque condimentum, urna non consectetur mattis, justo quam sollicitudin turpis, eget condimentum quam odio non neque.

Phasellus pretium massa nisi, in facilisis odio efficitur id. Nullam accumsan est quis risus imperdiet pulvinar. Vivamus hendrerit augue leo, eget pellentesque augue pharetra eu. Maecenas bibendum, est in porttitor aliquam, velit justo iaculis orci, quis eleifend dolor justo nec dolor. Nunc a iaculis mi. Morbi suscipit eu risus ac porttitor. Nam ante lorem, molestie ut mauris fringilla, pretium varius nisi. Mauris accumsan euismod massa nec interdum. Suspendisse convallis, risus sit amet aliquet vehicula, lacus ante scelerisque quam, quis vulputate odio mi in metus. Nulla sodales dictum quam nec molestie. Phasellus aliquet, risus eu dapibus commodo, arcu risus vulputate tellus, quis feugiat sem libero sit amet orci. Phasellus vel nunc volutpat erat auctor porttitor. Morbi eleifend magna ante, at cursus leo ultrices vitae. Nulla sit amet justo at risus ornare venenatis. Quisque auctor condimentum erat non congue.

In porttitor, nisl a rhoncus laoreet, urna nisi elementum sapien, facilisis fringilla velit magna nec lorem. Mauris mattis nec sem a malesuada. Aenean elit massa, auctor ut velit eu, sodales sodales justo. Morbi cursus placerat ex sit amet tempor. Aliquam erat volutpat. Nunc sapien eros, tincidunt non pretium quis, ullamcorper non leo. Fusce blandit, ante et volutpat laoreet, ante erat efficitur ligula, sed vehicula sem nulla a eros. Fusce scelerisque tortor vitae condimentum tempus. Sed sit amet lectus id est hendrerit blandit.

Maecenas tincidunt ultricies nunc, vitae egestas mauris consectetur vel. Nunc vel sapien vitae tortor iaculis sollicitudin accumsan ac ligula. Fusce sem lacus, pharetra vel convallis ac, lobortis eu sapien. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. In id nibh quis massa condimentum iaculis. Curabitur sit amet porta nisl. Vivamus at purus vitae lacus rhoncus sagittis sed ac elit. Phasellus finibus, nunc mollis mattis iaculis, ligula justo blandit lorem, eleifend posuere dolor arcu nec dolor. Fusce convallis enim elit.

Curabitur convallis orci convallis sodales sodales. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus. Fusce dui quam, ornare id tortor at, dignissim ultrices justo. Praesent pharetra risus lorem, at mollis nisl sollicitudin eget. Vestibulum laoreet ultricies lobortis. Proin efficitur ex ut dignissim lacinia. Donec quis mollis quam, et dignissim lorem.

Ut ultrices nisl id purus cursus, id sollicitudin urna luctus. Duis gravida felis erat, in sodales nisi pharetra ac. Sed eget urna elit. Proin ac ipsum convallis, scelerisque nunc id, hendrerit enim. Mauris dignissim interdum velit, in maximus felis faucibus faucibus. Integer facilisis sit amet ipsum a mattis. In sit amet tellus nunc. Etiam pharetra neque fermentum odio ornare pretium. Nullam scelerisque ligula vel mi sollicitudin, iaculis porta erat pellentesque. Phasellus interdum metus vitae congue vulputate. Fusce nulla nunc, accumsan eget mauris quis, convallis consectetur erat. Etiam augue libero, cursus et turpis et, vestibulum maximus urna. Etiam fermentum varius ipsum, a interdum turpis maximus ut.

Proin interdum, libero at rhoncus convallis, tellus odio placerat nibh, nec fringilla dolor quam in ipsum. Aenean vestibulum ultricies cursus. Donec placerat leo nunc, pretium feugiat velit suscipit a. Nulla facilisi. Donec quis mattis elit. Nullam in nisl dui. Cras euismod lectus ac augue iaculis pretium. Vivamus fringilla quis diam sed lobortis. Maecenas laoreet a erat non dignissim. Integer ipsum arcu, gravida sed sagittis ut, semper in dolor. Praesent id felis vitae est varius maximus. Quisque ac aliquam purus, sed viverra magna. Integer hendrerit nisl enim, a elementum orci aliquam at. Maecenas sodales ipsum feugiat tellus lobortis venenatis. Pellentesque nec ultricies nisl, vel blandit dolor.

Aliquam erat volutpat. Maecenas bibendum justo vel tortor finibus, vitae maximus ligula lobortis. In dapibus tortor lorem. Vestibulum vel quam ante. Proin elementum aliquet nisi nec interdum. Quisque tempor, tortor in auctor maximus, massa neque dignissim nisl, tempus efficitur quam leo non nibh. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nulla eu elementum nisi. Maecenas vitae ligula dui. Pellentesque tristique augue elit, sit amet tempus risus iaculis sed. Duis id nunc sem. Maecenas ornare risus at elit rutrum, in congue metus porta.

Maecenas congue quis risus sed pharetra. Praesent sed nunc vel ex venenatis interdum eget cursus orci. Mauris lobortis non velit quis ultricies. Quisque eros tellus, lobortis malesuada blandit vel, viverra vitae ex. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Sed ut vulputate tortor. Ut erat nisl, pellentesque ut condimentum sed, mattis ut dolor. Aenean finibus eget ante pulvinar ullamcorper. Quisque dignissim, nibh quis efficitur mollis, elit orci laoreet eros, et volutpat orci odio a ipsum. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Maecenas sed suscipit ex. Nullam eu erat tempus, blandit magna sed, bibendum massa. Nulla feugiat erat eget auctor aliquam. Curabitur sed odio euismod, interdum sapien nec, posuere justo. Pellentesque dictum tortor nec mi interdum tincidunt. Integer mattis ligula nisl, nec auctor purus congue nec.

Sed felis nunc, rhoncus ac semper vitae, placerat at libero. Nullam vitae commodo turpis. Nulla ullamcorper, quam eget molestie semper, mi orci aliquam purus, ac gravida enim metus vitae erat. Mauris neque urna, imperdiet vel eleifend ut, viverra at est. Etiam non ante ut metus lobortis consequat. Nulla vitae semper augue. Donec dictum quis metus id elementum. Pellentesque tempus, libero at porta sollicitudin, libero velit efficitur est, ac dictum libero nisl non elit. Nulla tincidunt egestas mauris, vel congue odio rutrum vitae. Proin commodo leo et diam lobortis, non commodo eros ultricies. Aenean malesuada massa ac dui facilisis, nec lobortis augue venenatis. Fusce mattis vestibulum ex at ornare. Phasellus sed arcu ullamcorper mauris feugiat viverra eu aliquam metus. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Curabitur posuere eu ex faucibus rhoncus.

Maecenas congue diam id nibh tempus aliquam at vitae ex. Cras consectetur ex quis est semper, eget semper neque scelerisque. Aliquam leo felis, ultricies non faucibus at, ultrices ac ante. Fusce aliquam laoreet viverra. Nunc lacus diam, malesuada in leo eu, facilisis suscipit orci. Donec venenatis eget arcu ut aliquet. Nullam quis dignissim sapien, congue gravida nibh. Donec ut laoreet lorem, id tristique mi.

Nunc metus ex, gravida congue dapibus eget, laoreet eu elit. Sed tincidunt ipsum ex, at mollis odio accumsan pulvinar. Nullam nisl nunc, venenatis non molestie at, varius vitae dui. Etiam commodo malesuada congue. Maecenas ut finibus mi, a consectetur felis. Fusce molestie, sem non malesuada pharetra, odio ipsum eleifend dui, sed cursus tellus tellus eu lorem. Integer sit amet nunc elit. Aliquam at nibh commodo, elementum erat ullamcorper, aliquet massa. Pellentesque accumsan vulputate velit, ut vestibulum neque faucibus vitae. Morbi maximus consequat mi, quis egestas nisl facilisis id. Sed sit amet ullamcorper ligula, vel vulputate eros. Etiam auctor felis leo, cursus auctor urna varius nec. Cras turpis tortor, auctor vel massa sit amet, pulvinar hendrerit risus. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus.

Pellentesque non mattis quam, vitae fringilla sapien. Donec vestibulum tortor quis nunc suscipit luctus. Vestibulum in nulla at mauris tristique semper id at neque. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Nulla non massa sed libero iaculis dictum a et odio. Praesent tortor odio, aliquet vel pellentesque at, tempor et metus. Cras sit amet orci quis ante aliquet maximus. Morbi vitae maximus felis. Sed tincidunt efficitur augue, id dapibus mauris eleifend ut. Integer tincidunt diam in lorem faucibus, efficitur sollicitudin tellus luctus. In nec eros purus. Aenean sit amet aliquam augue. Nam rutrum diam at magna dignissim, nec congue libero laoreet. Nullam cursus, tortor semper pulvinar mollis, erat diam egestas quam, id venenatis tellus mi ut nibh.

Nulla eget ligula nisi. Nunc eget libero quis felis dictum hendrerit at tincidunt risus. Nunc gravida, elit auctor blandit tincidunt, lacus nisi maximus orci, sit amet scelerisque ligula arcu sit amet ligula. Proin nunc tortor, luctus quis lectus ac, ullamcorper semper odio. Nullam a suscipit sem. Pellentesque turpis magna, tempor vel sodales at, maximus ac enim. Curabitur ut sollicitudin turpis.

Etiam rutrum aliquet orci, at feugiat sapien ultrices laoreet. Aliquam dignissim egestas orci. Vestibulum suscipit nibh a nisi dictum, nec ullamcorper leo rutrum. Praesent tincidunt ipsum eu aliquet faucibus. Fusce eleifend tellus non felis posuere, in tristique tellus condimentum. Curabitur sed mi commodo, ornare purus vel, facilisis augue. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas.

In vitae mi ligula. Quisque sodales id turpis fermentum mattis. In a elit lobortis, efficitur tellus sed, sollicitudin quam. Etiam vel libero et leo volutpat posuere at et tellus. Nulla pulvinar ac justo ut blandit. Integer lacinia mollis dolor, lobortis scelerisque velit rutrum nec. Praesent non lectus faucibus, laoreet nulla ac, bibendum nisi. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Vivamus fringilla ligula vel lectus auctor, nec feugiat lacus porttitor. Quisque hendrerit, nunc vel tempor finibus, libero lorem placerat mauris, ac tincidunt mauris diam vitae lorem. Phasellus ut neque sed lectus rutrum maximus sed facilisis dolor. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Donec pretium in odio eget dignissim. Vivamus vel felis lorem. Nulla facilisi.

Curabitur cursus viverra sem quis vulputate. Etiam dignissim fringilla vehicula. Duis placerat congue faucibus. Nam sagittis eget quam non vehicula. Proin vehicula eu enim quis tincidunt. Praesent bibendum sed tortor at elementum. In ac pretium tellus.

Aliquam nulla justo, tincidunt nec auctor et, sagittis sit amet justo. Sed varius libero mi, sed placerat lorem feugiat vel. Aliquam tristique magna nec scelerisque mollis. Proin fermentum, eros sed euismod gravida, leo felis dignissim lacus, at placerat est tortor vel leo. Nulla facilisi. Morbi efficitur non metus id commodo. Nullam lobortis volutpat leo, sit amet luctus turpis vulputate eu. Nunc odio mauris, ullamcorper id eleifend at, accumsan at eros. In eu nulla vestibulum, luctus tellus ut, mollis nibh. Duis vel aliquet sem. Phasellus vitae libero ac est malesuada aliquam eu vitae mi. Vivamus mi tellus, placerat in lacinia sed, ullamcorper non elit. Integer pellentesque ex velit, vel aliquam massa fringilla ut. Praesent vel vestibulum ante, sed aliquet erat.

Cras molestie lobortis sapien, sed hendrerit ex vulputate eget. Nam et mi eget elit cursus efficitur et sed augue. Ut sodales rhoncus magna, a laoreet dui laoreet non. Pellentesque fermentum turpis ut fermentum euismod. Duis auctor cursus augue, id finibus nulla interdum et. Quisque convallis felis mi, nec sagittis arcu suscipit ut. Pellentesque scelerisque risus eu lorem aliquam pellentesque.

Etiam ligula justo, pellentesque a venenatis et, fringilla ut massa. Morbi eu lorem quis orci aliquet aliquam ut id justo. In viverra pulvinar magna eget consectetur. Etiam ac nisi non odio bibendum ultrices. Praesent odio nibh, suscipit ac dictum at, ullamcorper a quam. Sed imperdiet dui malesuada quam varius convallis. Praesent pharetra posuere mi sit amet rhoncus.

Morbi vitae luctus nisl. Ut dapibus vel tellus et elementum. Nam quis sagittis ante. Integer convallis quis tellus quis cursus. Donec odio eros, condimentum non urna in, maximus convallis elit. Vivamus commodo vehicula dolor, in porttitor lectus dictum et. Nam viverra tempor euismod. Maecenas egestas ullamcorper gravida. Vestibulum consectetur enim nec nulla convallis tempor. Aenean feugiat est vitae quam lacinia, et tincidunt mauris ultricies. Morbi ligula erat, luctus ut maximus in, convallis id est.

Nullam consequat pretium arcu. Pellentesque vel rutrum dolor, in pellentesque nisi. In lacus justo, tempor eget nisi eu, tempor aliquet leo. Suspendisse sem risus, porttitor nec pretium ac, porta et nisl. Etiam velit nisl, condimentum eget molestie sed, fringilla sit amet quam. Pellentesque finibus placerat pretium. Integer nunc velit, iaculis et sapien et, scelerisque auctor lorem. Aliquam erat volutpat.

Vestibulum sit amet maximus mi. Pellentesque et sapien a ligula mattis suscipit vel vitae tortor. Etiam nec tincidunt velit. In sit amet lectus tristique mauris euismod vehicula ut eget est. Donec eleifend nulla mattis facilisis pretium. Nunc et fermentum urna, quis auctor massa. Quisque eu pellentesque lorem, et dignissim mauris. In massa felis, posuere nec diam et, lacinia tristique sapien. Maecenas sodales, enim non tempus vulputate, dolor tortor aliquet massa, vitae auctor nulla ligula pretium risus.

Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Curabitur in ex pharetra, tempor odio sed, commodo magna. Sed ullamcorper imperdiet tellus, id malesuada ante ornare nec. Fusce porttitor nec massa et gravida. In eget nisl finibus, suscipit tortor eu, consequat tortor. Ut feugiat metus nec est elementum vulputate. In a vestibulum magna. Vestibulum eros mauris, lobortis nec velit in, euismod consectetur mi. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Vivamus in porta nulla. Quisque imperdiet, neque a fringilla tristique, arcu arcu posuere orci, in cursus enim ligula in nulla. Aenean vel ultricies ipsum. Donec aliquet bibendum eros non placerat.

Proin justo magna, convallis vitae tempor eget, malesuada et sem. Sed eleifend metus id feugiat congue. Vivamus eget maximus libero. Curabitur euismod velit elit, nec commodo massa finibus et. Proin interdum congue erat, eget euismod turpis semper vel. Morbi gravida in eros at rhoncus. Duis vitae leo in enim mattis laoreet. Donec sollicitudin non ligula ut dictum. Cras ultrices, est vel vulputate consectetur, lectus nunc mollis metus, in rutrum mi enim sed orci. Donec sit amet elit dui. Fusce sapien enim, maximus vitae urna at, porttitor vestibulum magna.

Maecenas ut libero nec felis bibendum porttitor. Donec consectetur tellus eu libero gravida porttitor. Aenean condimentum mauris at tortor gravida gravida. Fusce finibus felis ut euismod porta. Pellentesque fermentum dui gravida urna condimentum tincidunt. Integer elementum turpis non ligula fringilla tristique eget sit amet dolor. Nulla suscipit eros quis lacus malesuada viverra. Suspendisse id iaculis magna. Mauris vel leo leo. Donec accumsan nisl est, vitae blandit nisi scelerisque ut. Morbi elementum dolor eget purus eleifend suscipit ut in risus. Suspendisse convallis eget purus eu viverra. Integer mollis nunc egestas nunc eleifend feugiat. Donec eget ipsum sed sapien egestas sollicitudin.

Nunc sapien leo, congue ac euismod eget, feugiat quis nunc. Sed ac lacus urna. Nulla nunc neque, bibendum vel fermentum et, dapibus sed elit. Suspendisse tellus augue, bibendum non tincidunt non, auctor vel libero. Mauris orci nibh, lobortis non vehicula in, sagittis eu tellus. Ut eu lobortis dolor. Proin ac semper tellus. Nullam mauris nisl, dictum non sollicitudin vel, ullamcorper vel nibh. Vivamus convallis ullamcorper feugiat. Quisque libero orci, sagittis ut tellus et, aliquam tristique tortor. Suspendisse ornare at enim a fringilla. Pellentesque id tortor mattis, fermentum ipsum in, lobortis sapien.

Ut justo leo, gravida et eleifend nec, tincidunt id nunc. Nullam elementum quam tempor, sagittis erat a, luctus ipsum. Nam suscipit finibus egestas. Suspendisse potenti. Vivamus eros leo, faucibus auctor bibendum a, tempor a diam. Nulla semper id mi ac porta. Cras eleifend sapien eu ante sollicitudin dapibus. Suspendisse eget erat sed eros finibus consequat quis nec ante. Nulla dictum commodo pulvinar. Maecenas aliquam, dui id iaculis commodo, sem quam lacinia sem, sit amet convallis ligula neque sit amet enim. Integer sagittis diam a bibendum consequat. Fusce mattis scelerisque ex vel bibendum.

Suspendisse potenti. Praesent faucibus nulla metus, sed posuere diam suscipit non. Pellentesque laoreet pharetra nulla nec feugiat. Proin et augue risus. Integer venenatis purus eu condimentum vestibulum. Mauris quis metus auctor, tristique turpis sed, rutrum nulla. Fusce sagittis lorem ut metus consequat, vitae pretium erat pharetra. Nullam leo nibh, eleifend et aliquam vel, porttitor in erat. In finibus eget urna eu ultricies. Etiam sed posuere nisi, non consequat mauris. Sed vel arcu ac ante dignissim porttitor sit amet sed felis. Praesent eleifend neque neque, id malesuada nisl pretium non.

In eleifend dictum nulla, at auctor metus facilisis non. Cras mollis placerat hendrerit. Donec egestas enim nec molestie egestas. Nullam pulvinar scelerisque sapien, viverra placerat ipsum egestas sed. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Aliquam rhoncus consectetur augue vehicula consectetur. Suspendisse egestas diam quis imperdiet tempus. Phasellus ac magna et diam posuere dictum et sit amet neque. Sed scelerisque tortor sit amet velit aliquet, eu pretium lacus imperdiet.

Nam laoreet sed est ac molestie. Phasellus ac est sit amet massa vestibulum laoreet. In eget suscipit orci. Suspendisse euismod ornare felis at tempor. Phasellus a tellus congue, molestie justo sit amet, iaculis erat. Nunc aliquam, nulla in vestibulum varius, magna ante sagittis tortor, vel placerat ipsum est ut felis. Mauris id dolor et velit commodo fringilla eu id nisi. Fusce at sapien nibh. In pulvinar tellus sapien, ac convallis nunc mattis sed. Proin vitae risus in nibh tincidunt malesuada.

Donec maximus metus est, et hendrerit odio condimentum in. Sed at lacinia lorem. Quisque sed odio eu nisi imperdiet venenatis. Sed non blandit augue. Donec lacus metus, elementum vestibulum finibus quis, venenatis eu magna. Nam sit amet elementum felis. Morbi pulvinar ultricies ipsum vitae volutpat. Pellentesque quis mauris risus. Etiam orci nibh, sagittis ac ultricies in, porta non mauris. Nam dignissim scelerisque egestas. Duis pretium eget elit quis vehicula. Quisque finibus purus nec auctor tincidunt. Phasellus ornare mattis sollicitudin.

Vestibulum ut sollicitudin mi. Sed lacinia ex et vehicula interdum. Etiam molestie velit eget sodales commodo. Maecenas at nisi consequat, lacinia lorem vel, pulvinar nisi. Duis ut ante diam. Nulla non commodo arcu, vitae egestas nisi. Vivamus eu neque quis elit pharetra sagittis. Aliquam id ullamcorper arcu, eu aliquam mauris. Sed sit amet consequat sapien. Vivamus venenatis ut mauris sed iaculis. Duis porta lectus at maximus venenatis. Pellentesque a nibh eros. Nunc suscipit, nibh at luctus cursus, justo nisl dictum leo, et porttitor purus sem nec massa. Donec varius arcu et lorem egestas tempus. Nunc id enim sed purus dictum cursus.

In ultrices tempus pharetra. Morbi ullamcorper dui molestie, rutrum arcu at, tempus sapien. Nullam faucibus condimentum massa at auctor. Mauris eu tempus felis, in vehicula libero. Nam at gravida enim, id pharetra nisl. Aliquam erat volutpat. Quisque vel eros at ligula volutpat consectetur. Vestibulum egestas elit et tellus condimentum egestas. Cras lobortis erat in eros pellentesque, vel feugiat dui aliquam. Nunc vel fringilla mauris. Duis vitae blandit ante, sed bibendum erat.

Nam nec ipsum in ex interdum porta vitae vel ligula. Quisque pharetra vitae dolor sit amet malesuada. Vestibulum placerat faucibus viverra. Duis rutrum quam ut semper auctor. Phasellus posuere tristique lobortis. Sed tempus velit sem, ac tincidunt arcu tempor at. Aliquam erat volutpat. Suspendisse bibendum, libero volutpat sodales condimentum, dui ex ullamcorper lectus, vitae dignissim enim sapien sed est. Praesent eu rhoncus mauris, vitae tempor ante. Etiam quis velit vitae nibh vehicula facilisis eu eget est. Nulla ac est eget justo sagittis lobortis sed vel erat. Nulla egestas, erat sed ullamcorper euismod, orci nunc euismod quam, non pellentesque felis velit a metus. Suspendisse in ligula a leo congue ornare. In et ullamcorper elit. Nullam ornare ullamcorper mauris sodales vehicula. Morbi cursus, lacus eu rutrum pulvinar, ante justo aliquam tellus, a vehicula lectus ante at risus.

In interdum felis sed bibendum varius. Etiam turpis neque, egestas vel malesuada ut, interdum nec est. Ut quis mi at risus sagittis consequat. Aenean sed eros sed risus fringilla convallis in in diam. Nulla sodales, velit quis imperdiet venenatis, massa dolor mollis mi, vel molestie urna orci id dui. Curabitur lacinia fermentum efficitur. Ut nec diam facilisis, eleifend mi vel, ullamcorper diam. Aenean facilisis placerat sem ut blandit.

Donec vitae interdum libero. Suspendisse sagittis diam non ligula semper, auctor tincidunt quam aliquam. Cras egestas velit elit, sed egestas risus laoreet in. Sed eu nisi semper, posuere diam eget, accumsan erat. Proin augue neque, pretium at massa at, rhoncus suscipit nisi. Quisque sed metus sit amet erat vehicula vehicula. Morbi gravida felis sit amet mi rhoncus, vel gravida est auctor. Mauris porttitor nulla a rhoncus sollicitudin. Suspendisse potenti. Sed tellus tortor, tincidunt maximus metus id, convallis efficitur elit. Donec ut laoreet turpis. Aliquam euismod sem erat, et varius lorem rhoncus at. Sed nec lorem a dui tempus scelerisque eu sit amet leo.

In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Fusce lobortis sapien at ipsum venenatis porttitor in vel nulla. Aliquam magna mauris, dapibus sit amet velit id, consectetur pretium velit. Quisque eget mi sed arcu porttitor egestas maximus et magna. Pellentesque nulla neque, molestie ac tortor vitae, pretium vestibulum magna. Sed dictum eu ligula eu ullamcorper. Sed id dui maximus, mattis lacus sit amet, iaculis elit. Nunc eget pulvinar quam. Pellentesque felis est, consequat a gravida in, aliquam sit amet sapien. Fusce euismod, metus non malesuada porttitor, nisi ante suscipit diam, et placerat lectus libero vel ligula. Suspendisse aliquam lacus id felis elementum consequat nec vel augue. Quisque eu ultrices nulla. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Sed malesuada sagittis lacus, in molestie diam blandit eu. Donec rhoncus, mauris ut commodo malesuada, lacus nisl placerat eros, et rhoncus erat nibh sit amet tortor. Donec a mattis arcu.

Curabitur quis venenatis odio, quis laoreet tortor. Praesent eleifend enim lorem, non aliquam quam lacinia tristique. Integer quis dui sed sem viverra bibendum non ac ex. Cras nisl urna, placerat et ultricies nec, ullamcorper vitae enim. Nullam volutpat maximus semper. Nam fermentum pharetra purus, mattis suscipit nunc ultricies nec. Nunc congue gravida lorem, ut tincidunt sem posuere ut. Ut vel mauris mauris. Nam vel maximus odio. Donec commodo justo dui, malesuada ullamcorper massa auctor sit amet. Quisque diam libero, tincidunt vel sagittis ac, euismod sed arcu.

Nam bibendum nunc quam. Mauris ac tellus a metus dictum dictum quis sed dolor. Phasellus a augue finibus mauris vehicula viverra eu ac lectus. Donec vitae libero id dui posuere consectetur. Proin facilisis suscipit risus, ac porttitor tortor venenatis in. Cras eget sapien quis leo vestibulum faucibus quis vitae lorem. Curabitur sed egestas odio. Suspendisse ultricies erat eget felis molestie, sit amet fermentum eros sodales. Integer facilisis molestie metus, nec finibus velit eleifend a. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.

Mauris et ante sed magna feugiat eleifend at a nibh. Integer sem ex, facilisis eget metus et, feugiat luctus nunc. Duis aliquet, ligula a consectetur euismod, dolor sem eleifend leo, quis faucibus justo tellus sit amet velit. Quisque commodo porttitor ex vitae finibus. Nam ut diam in elit laoreet lacinia. Nunc in elit nisi. Curabitur vel congue augue, quis placerat odio. Morbi imperdiet sem libero. Praesent luctus nisl ac sagittis mattis. Mauris fringilla libero gravida arcu vulputate rutrum. Aenean justo ante, gravida et odio in, pellentesque vulputate neque. Proin at tortor vitae ligula tempus mollis sed id velit.

Duis ultrices leo sem, id tempor eros molestie at. Mauris tempus porta augue. Vivamus eget tristique sem, non tincidunt est. Curabitur laoreet iaculis tristique. Duis at efficitur urna, quis rhoncus libero. Morbi non ex et ipsum tempus gravida. Curabitur luctus posuere erat varius bibendum. Nunc ornare sit amet magna non tincidunt. Nunc consequat et nunc ultricies lacinia. Nunc non justo pretium leo pellentesque condimentum. Curabitur et tempus purus. Donec quis vehicula ex, nec posuere lacus. Donec sem dolor, fringilla quis rutrum non, aliquet quis velit. Nullam efficitur tempus feugiat. Nullam ut sagittis sapien, ornare scelerisque nisi.

Nullam vel ultrices erat, vitae cursus eros. Morbi placerat libero a elit vulputate, sit amet hendrerit ipsum dapibus. Ut pellentesque, neque ac viverra ultrices, risus leo pretium ante, porttitor tempus odio felis vel quam. Maecenas fermentum, ligula at lacinia lacinia, metus justo feugiat arcu, vitae luctus ligula mi tristique neque. Donec egestas elit eget felis mollis, vitae gravida nisl pharetra. Nulla mauris eros, congue in sapien at, faucibus sodales eros. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos.

Maecenas lacinia lectus turpis, quis tristique leo laoreet sit amet. Nam scelerisque commodo iaculis. Morbi justo neque, suscipit quis lectus ac, tincidunt ultricies metus. Sed lorem magna, venenatis pellentesque elit pharetra, viverra iaculis mauris. Sed mattis accumsan placerat. Nunc nec ante odio. Nam tempus lectus id turpis sollicitudin, in malesuada urna dictum. Maecenas suscipit euismod lorem sit amet malesuada. Aliquam urna mauris, iaculis id iaculis non, convallis eu mi. Maecenas quis ullamcorper elit. Fusce eu finibus dui, ac tempus magna. Donec tincidunt sapien aliquet iaculis tempus. Phasellus consectetur nisl vel tristique tincidunt. Aliquam dignissim urna id augue facilisis, in ornare mauris tincidunt.

Etiam nec scelerisque ex. Sed consequat malesuada dui. Praesent ornare ante sed ligula viverra cursus iaculis id ante. Phasellus vehicula velit ligula, non egestas quam suscipit pulvinar. Mauris suscipit placerat sapien, ac sagittis elit posuere bibendum. Praesent bibendum convallis feugiat. Etiam arcu elit, gravida vitae mauris ac, dignissim fermentum ex. Fusce lacinia neque quam, eget aliquam est vulputate eu. Morbi eget suscipit erat, et semper elit. Fusce in egestas mi. Mauris vehicula arcu nisi, nec molestie orci scelerisque non. Nam tortor eros, viverra nec nunc quis, auctor tincidunt ex. Donec sodales faucibus purus a laoreet.

Proin iaculis lacus a vulputate lobortis. Nullam dictum nec neque sagittis feugiat. Aenean volutpat eget tellus ut congue. Nulla quis nibh nisl. Maecenas volutpat ut dui sit amet vehicula. Sed fringilla, urna ut eleifend accumsan, lacus lectus aliquet nulla, vitae ultrices erat ligula et mi. Sed ac neque porta, bibendum est at, imperdiet leo. Integer sit amet tristique velit, ut ornare odio. Mauris vitae augue pretium, convallis ante at, luctus orci.

Donec sit amet elementum ligula. Quisque dapibus, magna ac ullamcorper fringilla, erat justo faucibus nunc, quis auctor enim lacus a ante. Vivamus eget lacus nec lorem aliquam posuere. In ac egestas est. Pellentesque mauris magna, venenatis faucibus nisi at, congue fringilla enim. Nulla facilisi. Fusce ac porta ante, nec imperdiet eros. Nullam iaculis eros a tristique volutpat. Suspendisse a nisl ut velit pharetra egestas. Praesent blandit sollicitudin vehicula. Nam a eros lorem. Sed nunc eros, dictum quis turpis at, ultrices eleifend metus. Ut iaculis porta diam, at finibus ante congue et. Vivamus aliquam odio sapien, eu molestie justo laoreet ut.

Duis varius rutrum metus sed lobortis. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Maecenas aliquet arcu non odio fringilla dictum. Curabitur efficitur ullamcorper orci, a feugiat neque faucibus quis. Duis urna eros, aliquet sit amet nibh sed, bibendum condimentum diam. Mauris facilisis elit non nisi laoreet, in consectetur risus ultrices. Fusce nisi odio, pulvinar non hendrerit vel, ornare ac tortor. Suspendisse ornare est a velit rutrum hendrerit. Sed tristique sem in velit fermentum, a blandit tortor faucibus. Integer vitae massa at nisi suscipit tincidunt. Proin eu hendrerit sem, quis feugiat nisl. Donec imperdiet gravida lectus vel laoreet.

Etiam tortor elit, convallis quis elit vitae, tristique gravida sem. Nulla pulvinar feugiat euismod. Donec volutpat a tortor vitae cursus. Suspendisse porta nunc a augue imperdiet interdum. Quisque laoreet, arcu sit amet consequat imperdiet, dolor dui scelerisque eros, eu tincidunt metus tortor eget purus. Sed ac velit et nulla vestibulum gravida quis non quam. Proin in nisl quis dolor sodales cursus. Morbi euismod egestas nulla, et fermentum lectus egestas eget. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Aliquam ut quam eget metus hendrerit mattis. Phasellus maximus eleifend magna, eget consectetur metus elementum a. Suspendisse nec ex odio. Phasellus non vestibulum tortor. Quisque ultrices pellentesque eros, ut faucibus dui blandit sed. Duis volutpat ipsum eget ultricies blandit. Nunc rutrum eget nulla eget fermentum.

Mauris ornare turpis elit, id convallis sem pulvinar id. Morbi blandit libero lectus. Curabitur nunc urna, aliquet nec sem ac, fermentum rutrum sapien. Suspendisse velit sapien, ullamcorper at ultricies a, volutpat id ipsum. Curabitur convallis iaculis consequat. Praesent malesuada erat leo, ut facilisis quam fermentum a. Morbi elit metus, malesuada a ligula ut, tincidunt dignissim mauris. Praesent volutpat leo in dolor pharetra, eget vulputate sem condimentum. Integer hendrerit dolor non nunc cursus, eget pharetra orci auctor. Pellentesque eget tristique enim. Nam ultricies odio vel libero posuere, vel efficitur sem pulvinar. Duis ac tincidunt metus. Ut sit amet felis eget magna convallis feugiat. Sed feugiat hendrerit nunc vel malesuada. Pellentesque eros diam, semper a lorem ac, accumsan suscipit sapien. Suspendisse sed erat felis.

Integer imperdiet, lacus et volutpat accumsan, nulla enim porttitor erat, ut rutrum sem magna sit amet risus. Proin sagittis erat metus, eget facilisis enim facilisis at. In eget justo vel sapien pulvinar posuere eu eget turpis. Integer ac nisl nisi. Etiam eleifend risus a erat gravida, vel cursus ante interdum. Nunc tellus neque, consequat sit amet imperdiet placerat, tincidunt vel mi. Pellentesque lectus magna, viverra finibus quam fermentum, dignissim ornare risus.

Pellentesque eget nibh dolor. Aenean aliquam mi nec eros volutpat hendrerit. Maecenas sapien leo, commodo quis tincidunt eu, lobortis vitae orci. Pellentesque aliquam, eros non finibus finibus, felis justo pulvinar mi, eget gravida sem metus sit amet nisl. Cras faucibus id diam sed ullamcorper. Morbi fringilla nunc eu lorem feugiat accumsan. Vestibulum sed dictum ipsum. Phasellus vestibulum, elit sed scelerisque auctor, justo purus cursus tellus, sit amet tempus velit nisl sit amet risus. Fusce non volutpat nisi.

Quisque vel venenatis dolor. Nullam vel lorem eros. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Phasellus eget efficitur ipsum, eget consequat leo. In libero ligula, feugiat vel fringilla et, vehicula sed dui. Morbi turpis neque, blandit a pellentesque vel, pharetra sit amet orci. Mauris tristique, nisl fermentum fermentum eleifend, eros sem sagittis orci, sed commodo libero metus varius nisl. Aenean odio sem, imperdiet sed purus eget, maximus rutrum elit.

Aenean a varius nisi. Donec urna metus, tempor sit amet fermentum id, posuere ut turpis. Donec a nunc in massa luctus lacinia. Nullam quis aliquet diam. Sed sagittis varius mi, sed rutrum justo ultricies aliquam. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. In libero neque, ullamcorper molestie odio eu, dictum consequat libero.

Sed mauris turpis, sagittis ultrices tortor sed, lacinia commodo ante. In vulputate, tellus nec dignissim cursus, arcu nunc luctus augue, ac egestas odio turpis vitae enim. Nulla quis eleifend sem. In bibendum metus id nulla vulputate, ut efficitur elit finibus. Aliquam cursus eget mauris eu volutpat. Fusce pharetra sapien vel augue lacinia, varius pretium quam consequat. Proin mollis mi at ex volutpat, nec pharetra quam consectetur. Sed egestas sit amet erat id ornare. Vivamus pharetra dolor laoreet justo viverra hendrerit. Nam pellentesque velit et ligula tristique efficitur.

Duis pretium velit urna. Ut lacinia faucibus nunc quis efficitur. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Pellentesque efficitur molestie lectus in aliquam. Fusce consequat, turpis imperdiet accumsan porta, ligula ante bibendum mi, ut lacinia metus odio ac nibh. Vestibulum id ex velit. Praesent varius quis ipsum vel condimentum. Donec iaculis dictum dolor nec semper.

Aenean rhoncus non purus id condimentum. Integer et massa in mauris molestie egestas. Suspendisse aliquam vitae libero at efficitur. Vestibulum lobortis consectetur euismod. Fusce tristique tellus massa, at rutrum leo cursus non. Aliquam sodales quis velit sagittis dapibus. Aenean at sollicitudin tellus. Nulla cursus dapibus nibh, ut placerat velit viverra scelerisque. Etiam elementum luctus quam. Nulla eu velit et leo dapibus egestas. Etiam commodo nec libero non imperdiet. Vivamus a velit sit amet purus eleifend hendrerit non id purus. Morbi hendrerit congue erat, dignissim dignissim urna maximus sed. Phasellus consequat mauris vel justo ullamcorper, tincidunt volutpat dui porttitor.

Vivamus eget vehicula mi. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus. Proin a porttitor quam, at elementum purus. Vivamus sit amet imperdiet tellus, in rutrum sem. Suspendisse sed faucibus libero, vitae tincidunt massa. Vivamus viverra, leo non fermentum efficitur, mi nisl imperdiet orci, sed semper sem quam sit amet felis. Nulla pellentesque mauris sit amet fringilla imperdiet. Curabitur non ex fringilla, vehicula quam id, laoreet elit. Nullam sollicitudin faucibus interdum.

Duis bibendum, arcu a molestie dignissim, libero ipsum efficitur metus, at venenatis mauris sapien vel ipsum. Cras pharetra arcu sed erat pretium vulputate. Integer urna metus, elementum at elit at, rhoncus vulputate massa. Maecenas dignissim facilisis diam id lobortis. Donec porttitor auctor tortor id finibus. Nam dictum nisl a enim vulputate, ac volutpat ligula malesuada. Quisque venenatis elit suscipit, fermentum odio ut, auctor lacus. Aenean aliquam tortor vel laoreet posuere. Donec elementum risus eget lectus eleifend, et auctor est ornare. Proin non magna semper, vulputate lorem nec, sodales nibh. Fusce tincidunt nulla eget ornare malesuada. Sed pellentesque orci ut enim convallis dapibus.

Cras varius odio vitae sem vestibulum, quis pharetra augue mattis. Sed id massa metus. Cras aliquet enim rhoncus libero aliquet egestas. Vivamus bibendum hendrerit mauris, ac posuere metus. Donec viverra mi et hendrerit varius. Phasellus id dignissim mauris. Nunc vel mauris nibh. Sed nec tincidunt orci. Nam at luctus eros, a tincidunt quam. Ut ac finibus mauris, condimentum congue felis. Donec turpis velit, elementum vel mattis aliquet, rutrum in ex. Fusce sed lobortis eros. Curabitur ac mi turpis.

Sed vel sem turpis. In et purus eget sem luctus faucibus. Integer id turpis eu ligula pharetra rhoncus sit amet vitae lorem. Vestibulum vestibulum mauris eu molestie efficitur. Sed sit amet condimentum odio. Integer vel risus lacinia, malesuada erat eu, pulvinar neque. In quis nisi molestie, bibendum nisi vitae, scelerisque justo. Ut feugiat placerat elit, nec imperdiet nunc vehicula vel. Donec dignissim dapibus tellus, a finibus enim elementum ac.

Etiam felis ante, dapibus at scelerisque vel, porta vitae quam. Ut convallis consectetur ante a porttitor. Praesent at convallis risus. Donec dignissim interdum leo, sit amet condimentum ex hendrerit eu. Nullam non eleifend risus. Donec fringilla ex a nulla efficitur egestas. Phasellus in tincidunt justo. Nam sed laoreet lorem.

Duis urna mi, pharetra eu risus vitae, bibendum elementum mi. Vivamus vitae justo nunc. Maecenas sodales enim sed congue molestie. Maecenas erat leo, dignissim sit amet massa et, consequat congue neque. Integer pulvinar vestibulum libero, sit amet sagittis dolor pretium sit amet. Proin imperdiet laoreet risus id tincidunt. Nam fermentum nisl ac lectus rutrum tristique. Praesent libero urna, placerat sed sem ac, congue porttitor lectus. Phasellus nisi felis, lobortis eu elit vel, egestas scelerisque nisi.

Sed facilisis magna ut urna posuere dictum. Praesent vitae malesuada lectus. Suspendisse tellus neque, efficitur et aliquet sed, tristique et tellus. Nulla pulvinar quam augue, sed auctor odio iaculis quis. Vivamus justo quam, malesuada at ligula id, viverra ornare magna. Suspendisse nec mi metus. Phasellus pellentesque, nisi et euismod egestas, eros arcu mollis neque, et congue lorem mi a enim. Curabitur porta nec turpis eu sagittis. Nulla risus risus, imperdiet ac eros laoreet, efficitur pretium ante. Phasellus in porttitor diam.

Nam et neque vel metus bibendum faucibus sit amet a nunc. Sed bibendum lorem non ex lacinia consequat. Pellentesque hendrerit mattis eros a interdum. Aenean interdum iaculis massa, vel malesuada massa dignissim sed. Nulla quis velit vel magna volutpat ultrices id eget arcu. Pellentesque urna tortor, euismod eget pellentesque at, molestie sit amet turpis. Vestibulum venenatis diam nulla, id placerat augue ullamcorper id. Cras ac convallis dui, eget malesuada nibh. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Duis rutrum nec eros vel maximus. Etiam accumsan sit amet ligula ac porta. Etiam ac orci tempor, venenatis ligula quis, tempus sapien. Morbi sapien ex, pulvinar eu pretium in, iaculis vel enim. Integer consectetur iaculis libero sit amet dictum. Proin scelerisque diam purus, at facilisis purus fringilla a.

Maecenas et commodo nibh. Fusce eu ullamcorper elit, id egestas arcu. Donec interdum dui nunc, eget sagittis felis dapibus in. Etiam consequat ac nulla sit amet sodales. Nam orci est, faucibus non metus a, tristique hendrerit risus. Sed eget orci mollis, condimentum neque vestibulum, suscipit lacus. Morbi fringilla imperdiet tellus, dignissim vestibulum erat vehicula ut. Nulla quis feugiat metus, quis congue dui. Fusce bibendum, orci volutpat pulvinar malesuada, ante velit convallis elit, eu ullamcorper mauris elit vel tortor. Donec vulputate dolor in libero hendrerit vestibulum. Proin id lectus ac augue elementum dignissim.

Donec nec leo non tortor commodo volutpat quis vel elit. Curabitur lobortis lacus dolor, nec convallis sapien suscipit non. Morbi tempus eu lacus consequat porttitor. Sed hendrerit eget ex et posuere. Donec rutrum, nibh non ultrices blandit, tortor eros vehicula turpis, a luctus augue risus sed mauris. Maecenas nec vehicula magna, at rhoncus turpis. Fusce vel est varius mi volutpat facilisis non sed lacus. Quisque efficitur enim et risus porttitor, a porttitor mauris feugiat. Nam laoreet ac elit quis mollis. Sed auctor aliquam tellus, pellentesque fermentum eros mollis vel. Aenean rutrum massa eu aliquet tempus. Mauris gravida felis nibh, ut luctus sem ultricies nec.

Nunc metus nulla, vestibulum eu justo ut, gravida laoreet massa. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Mauris varius enim sed dui euismod, sed maximus libero elementum. Praesent facilisis nisl nec tellus suscipit faucibus. Praesent vestibulum sapien in semper convallis. Quisque fringilla turpis nec justo euismod placerat. Nunc interdum egestas purus, sit amet rutrum turpis ullamcorper sit amet.

Etiam sed nunc ullamcorper sapien dapibus luctus non id tellus. Pellentesque lobortis, est a efficitur fringilla, sapien orci accumsan eros, sed ullamcorper magna ligula ultrices metus. In eros urna, semper ac ex sit amet, aliquet vehicula lacus. Duis a iaculis nisi. Vestibulum molestie accumsan turpis quis vulputate. Etiam posuere elementum elit, ac pharetra nunc viverra vitae. Nam efficitur, enim sed faucibus scelerisque, dui ipsum laoreet turpis, nec aliquam purus purus ac ante. In vel interdum ante, a posuere elit. Curabitur tempor justo dui, quis imperdiet mi convallis sit amet. Sed nec sapien tortor. Curabitur venenatis scelerisque erat. Nam rutrum urna posuere, varius arcu eu, posuere est. Morbi eget dictum leo. Donec nec egestas lorem. Curabitur congue rutrum maximus. Cras nec quam in est luctus gravida id malesuada mi.

Aliquam metus turpis, tincidunt non eros eu, sodales luctus massa. Maecenas tempus augue purus. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Proin tincidunt in urna eget fringilla. Proin et erat rhoncus, pharetra lorem at, sagittis mauris. Morbi arcu mi, rutrum at ligula at, vehicula aliquam odio. Pellentesque leo ex, consequat sit amet efficitur in, varius condimentum dui. Donec ut urna et sem euismod mattis non id orci. Nam euismod erat vitae sodales luctus. Donec imperdiet, est sit amet placerat laoreet, lacus quam pulvinar dui, vehicula porta libero justo nec purus. In egestas risus in ante convallis, ut faucibus dolor viverra. Cras blandit tellus lorem, ac dapibus mauris pharetra eget. Nunc tellus neque, varius at blandit vitae, placerat eu diam. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos.

Cras at auctor lorem. Praesent gravida, felis et lacinia cursus, odio leo porta diam, non accumsan nibh dolor in felis. Mauris volutpat vel est ut vulputate. Phasellus aliquet vehicula mauris, eu fringilla felis. Nunc vulputate pulvinar porttitor. Curabitur aliquet vel neque sed ultricies. Ut accumsan ipsum vel posuere dignissim. Morbi eu sem vel urna scelerisque auctor vitae et eros. Proin a ex massa. Nulla porttitor neque ut magna mollis malesuada.

Nulla facilisi. Nunc quis nunc at elit tempus varius vel viverra mi. Phasellus dictum ultrices dapibus. Integer pretium, arcu vitae volutpat euismod, diam turpis ullamcorper nulla, vitae aliquet libero nisl et turpis. Pellentesque eget aliquam sem. Vestibulum congue nisl a velit consequat, ut bibendum ipsum finibus. Aliquam commodo imperdiet nibh, ut vehicula velit euismod ac. Suspendisse et lorem vitae est varius commodo in eget nibh. Ut congue, mauris non efficitur imperdiet, elit leo imperdiet felis, auctor viverra urna est a nulla. Phasellus pellentesque nec tortor et hendrerit. Aliquam nec porttitor leo, semper commodo turpis. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Maecenas scelerisque auctor sem, vel consectetur augue blandit a.

Vivamus pulvinar orci vel erat blandit, vulputate varius dolor maximus. Integer quis mollis purus. Fusce porttitor nibh feugiat aliquet dignissim. Integer eget facilisis nulla. Mauris quis semper mi, a tincidunt lacus. Fusce bibendum eros ac tellus interdum sollicitudin sit amet ut elit. Sed nulla augue, vulputate ut quam vel, sagittis fermentum ligula. Mauris eu dolor id dolor tempor fermentum. Vivamus id dictum eros.

Cras a commodo quam, eu ultrices nisi. Maecenas faucibus faucibus volutpat. Ut mi elit, tempor vel est finibus, mattis venenatis lorem. Donec id augue id nisi pretium porta auctor et felis. Etiam a sem iaculis, fermentum orci non, ullamcorper mauris. Vivamus quis elit dui. Quisque eget malesuada metus. Nunc sapien urna, tempor in blandit eu, eleifend non lectus. Nullam dolor tellus, malesuada id est nec, pharetra egestas elit. Duis tempus risus a ipsum euismod, at imperdiet dui porttitor. Pellentesque purus neque, sagittis et lectus molestie, efficitur facilisis lacus. Pellentesque consectetur pellentesque libero, ac vestibulum enim tempus ut. Aenean tempus dictum eros sed scelerisque. Praesent tristique commodo diam. Curabitur dui nunc, tempor ut dolor ut, convallis dignissim est.

Nullam ac nibh in libero tincidunt lobortis nec in orci. Maecenas sed diam bibendum, ullamcorper lectus a, semper lectus. Nunc in mattis nibh. Curabitur vel nisl sed orci hendrerit pretium. Cras et pretium nisi. Praesent posuere augue non neque accumsan, sit amet semper sapien rhoncus. Sed ac vestibulum odio. Phasellus pellentesque dolor sodales, suscipit neque vel, finibus eros. Aliquam vel commodo magna.

Pellentesque eu tristique ipsum. Nullam urna nulla, pellentesque eu mi eget, sollicitudin blandit tellus. In ullamcorper, ex eget sollicitudin hendrerit, mauris massa efficitur erat, ac suscipit eros purus a arcu. Ut semper ante ac ligula hendrerit, ac interdum lectus iaculis. Sed nec luctus lorem. Etiam viverra turpis a dui efficitur interdum a id nisl. Suspendisse semper fringilla nibh vel placerat. Aliquam quis feugiat purus. Ut rhoncus facilisis luctus. Mauris mattis, ante at dictum posuere, nibh sapien iaculis quam, sed posuere erat ex ac lorem.

Fusce eu purus nisi. Morbi in sem ac leo faucibus tempus venenatis vitae quam. Sed quis justo tortor. Pellentesque tempus vel sapien eget egestas. Nunc nec orci id lorem luctus fermentum. Fusce eu turpis vitae turpis efficitur ullamcorper. Sed est orci, feugiat sed lacus sit amet, lacinia gravida metus. Quisque tempus eget metus eu aliquet. Nam consequat finibus mi eget luctus. Curabitur at eleifend arcu, vulputate feugiat urna. Suspendisse diam quam, suscipit vel urna sed, euismod accumsan quam. Proin mauris eros, volutpat sagittis nulla in, varius commodo arcu. Vestibulum feugiat mattis nunc vitae gravida. Ut at nisi ex. Maecenas aliquet, metus non feugiat vestibulum, leo orci vehicula nulla, ut vulputate dolor dui in nunc. Nunc iaculis nisi eget quam lobortis finibus.

Aliquam eget est vitae ex hendrerit convallis ut sed odio. Nullam at consectetur nisi. Donec ut accumsan lectus, at eleifend neque. Sed pulvinar urna quis enim scelerisque, id egestas dolor placerat. Mauris tincidunt suscipit sagittis. Curabitur bibendum, neque nec varius ornare, mi dui viverra lorem, a commodo lacus tellus non elit. Orci varius natoque penatibus et magnis dis parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus. Nunc placerat nec turpis vel hendrerit. Donec sollicitudin tortor eget feugiat posuere. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Ut at pulvinar turpis. Vivamus facilisis efficitur massa. Vestibulum imperdiet sapien in lacus tincidunt sagittis. Vestibulum in volutpat metus.

Nam vestibulum sem nec sapien blandit finibus. Morbi sollicitudin eleifend nulla sed euismod. Sed vel consectetur ligula. Donec dictum augue ac efficitur vehicula. Integer pellentesque neque ac pharetra facilisis. Ut sem elit, molestie tincidunt odio vitae, sollicitudin tempus ex. In sollicitudin, metus in sodales porttitor, metus ligula fermentum quam, sit amet lacinia nibh diam a justo. Quisque commodo purus eget sodales lacinia. Fusce non risus vitae turpis luctus ultrices. Donec commodo, metus suscipit egestas convallis, dolor lectus finibus nunc, nec scelerisque arcu risus ac lorem.

Ut faucibus purus est, quis maximus lorem condimentum tristique. Nulla vel malesuada elit. Curabitur sit amet pretium erat, sed imperdiet mi. Integer volutpat urna leo, et hendrerit sem rutrum in. Ut aliquam finibus nisl, ut porttitor lacus ultricies ut. Suspendisse rutrum pellentesque enim, eu volutpat metus fermentum eget. Nunc iaculis erat viverra nulla ornare lacinia. Ut suscipit facilisis dui, non congue urna mollis eget. Etiam ac augue ac risus aliquam ornare. Phasellus dapibus magna tincidunt risus molestie aliquam vitae a elit. Aliquam eu mauris varius, varius augue non, ornare est. Vestibulum fermentum risus eu lorem sollicitudin, et ultrices turpis sollicitudin.

Suspendisse potenti. Etiam sodales consectetur arcu sit amet scelerisque. Suspendisse ac mollis justo, id cursus purus. Aliquam dapibus mauris eget nisl vestibulum tristique. Nullam nec dapibus massa. Nam nec risus nec libero maximus semper. Curabitur fringilla nulla massa, quis tristique leo ultricies in. Cras in turpis sit amet ex elementum convallis. Nam eu nisi a ex efficitur tristique. Nunc id ante lobortis, egestas lectus non, finibus sapien. Mauris ac mauris placerat nisi suscipit ornare vel sit amet leo. Aenean urna eros, gravida non rutrum vitae, rhoncus at elit. Integer et dolor dignissim, ultricies leo quis, tincidunt mauris. Nulla tincidunt metus eget dui tempus, id ultrices mi aliquet. Sed elementum bibendum nulla, ac elementum odio sollicitudin in. Vivamus eget mi ultrices, viverra metus ut, sagittis libero. Morbi ex neque, tincidunt ut magna suscipit, placerat dictum lacus. Suspendisse vitae ultricies nibh. Curabitur nunc velit, sagittis vitae.
he Goliath of totalitarianism will be brought down by the David of the microchip,” Ronald Reagan said in 1989. He was speaking to a thousand British notables in London’s historic Guildhall, several months before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Reagan proclaimed that the world was on the precipice of “a new era in human history,” one that would bring “peace and freedom for all.” Communism was crumbling, just as fascism had before it. Liberal democracies would soon encircle the globe, thanks to the innovations of Silicon Valley. “I believe,” he said, “that more than armies, more than diplomacy, more than the best intentions of democratic nations, the communications revolution will be the greatest force for the advancement of human freedom the world has ever seen.”

At the time, most everyone thought Reagan was right. The twentieth century had been dominated by media that delivered the same material to millions of people at the same time—radio and newspapers, movies and television. These were the kinds of one-to-many, top-down mass media that Orwell’s Big Brother had used to stay in power. Now, however, Americans were catching sight of the internet. They believed that it would do what earlier media could not: it would allow people to speak for themselves, directly to one another, around the world. “True personalization is now upon us,” wrote MIT professor Nicholas Negroponte in his 1995 bestseller Being Digital. Corporations, industries, and even whole nations would soon be transformed as centralized authorities were demolished. Hierarchies would dissolve and peer-to-peer collaborations would take their place. “Like a force of nature,” wrote Negroponte, “the digital age cannot be denied or stopped.”

One of the deepest ironies of our current situation is that the modes of communication that enable today’s authoritarians were first dreamed up to defeat them. The same technologies that were meant to level the political playing field have brought troll farms and Russian bots to corrupt our elections. The same platforms of self-expression that we thought would let us empathize with one another and build a more harmonious society have been co-opted by figures such as Milo Yiannopoulos and, for that matter, Donald Trump, to turn white supremacy into a topic of dinner-­table conversation. And the same networked methods of organizing that so many thought would bring down malevolent states have not only failed to do so—think of the Arab Spring—but have instead empowered autocrats to more closely monitor protest and dissent.

If we’re going to resist the rise of despotism, we need to understand how this happened and why we didn’t see it coming. We especially need to grapple with the fact that today’s right wing has taken advantage of a decades-long liberal effort to decentralize our media. That effort began at the start of the Second World War, came down to us through the counterculture of the 1960s, and flourishes today in the high-tech hothouse of Silicon Valley. It is animated by a deep faith that when engineering replaces politics, the alienation of mass society and the threat of totalitarianism will melt away. As Trump fumes on Twitter, and Facebook posts are linked to genocide in Myanmar, we are beginning to see just how misplaced that faith has been. Even as they grant us the power to communicate with others around the globe, our social-­media networks have spawned a new form of authoritarianism.


Illustrations by Lincoln Agnew

The political vision that brought us to this point emerged in the 1930s, as a response to fascism. In the years before the Second World War, Americans were mystified as to how Germany, one of the most sophisticated nations in Europe, had tumbled down the dark hole of National Socialism. Today we’d likely blame Hitler’s rise on the economic chaos and political infighting of the Weimar era. But at the time, many blamed mass media. When Hitler spoke to row upon row of Nazi soldiers at torch-lit rallies, the radio broadcast his voice into every German home. When he drove through adoring crowds, standing in his Volks­wagen convertible, giving the Nazi salute, the newsreel cameras were there. In 1933, the New York Times described the predicament of the average German this way:

With coordinated newspaper headlines overpowering him, with radio voices beseeching him, with news reels and feature pictures arousing him, and with politicians and professors philosophizing for him, the individual German has been unable to salvage his identity and has been engulfed in a brown wave. . . . They are living in a Nazi dream and not in the reality of the world.

Toward the end of the decade, President Roosevelt began searching for ways to urge Americans to take a unified stand against fascism. Given the rise of right-wing fervor in the United States at the time, he had reason to worry. The racism and anti-­Semitism that characterized Nazi Germany also characterized much of American life. By 1938, millions of Americans listened weekly as Father Charles Coughlin, a Catholic demagogue, celebrated the rise of fascism and decried the existence of the Jews. Thousands of American fascists banded together in groups with names like the Silver Legion of America and the Crusader White Shirts. The Amerikadeutscher Volksbund, a 25,000-member pro-Nazi organization commonly known as the Bund, ran a summer camp on Long Island called Camp Siegfried, where young men marched in Nazi-style uniforms as their friends and families cheered. On February 20, 1939, the Bund brought more than 22,000 Americans to New York’s Madison Square Garden to welcome fascism to American shores. When they gathered, a huge banner hung over their heads: stop jewish domination of christian americans!

As the United States geared up for war, its leaders faced a quandary: they wanted to use media to unite Americans against their enemies, but many also feared that using mass media to do it would transform Americans into just the kind of authoritarians they were trying to defeat. Roosevelt’s cabinet sought advice from a group of intellectuals calling themselves the Committee for National Morale. The Committee had been founded in the summer of 1940 by a historian of Persian art named Arthur Upham Pope, who brought together a number of America’s leading thinkers, including the anthropologists Margaret Mead and Gregory Bateson, psychologists Gordon Allport and Kurt Lewin, and journalists Edmond Taylor and Ladislas Farago. Over the next two years, they would advise the Roosevelt Administration; produce pamphlets, news articles, and books; and set the cornerstone of our contemporary faith in decentralized media.

The Committee began by defining national morale in terms of what they called the democratic personality. Members of the Committee joined many American intellectuals in subscribing to the views of the anthropologist Franz Boas, who believed that cultures shape the personalities of their members in predictable ways. Germans, they thought, tended toward rigidity and an affection for authority, hence Hitler’s famously bureaucratic Nazi regime was a natural extension of the German character. Americans were more open, individualistic, expressive, collaborative, and tolerant, and so more at home in loose coalitions. Whatever kind of propaganda medium the Committee promoted would need to preserve the individuality of American citizens. Allport summed up the Committee’s vision in a 1942 essay. “In a democracy,” he wrote, “every personality can be a citadel of resistance to tyranny. In the co-ordination of the intelligences and wills of one hundred million ‘whole’ men and women lies the formula for an invincible American morale.”

As the Committee sought to coordinate rather than dominate American minds, its members turned to a kind of media system that we might now call a platform: the museum. These days we’re not used to the idea of buildings as media systems. But the Committee thought about museums in the same way many think about virtual reality today—as immersive visual environments where we can increase our empathy for one another. Mead, who was a student of Boas and worked for the American Museum of Natural History in New York, pointed out that in a museum, people could walk among images and objects distributed across the walls and around the floor, choosing to pay attention to those that seemed most meaningful to them. They could hone their individual tastes, they could reason about their individual places in the world, and they could do it together.

In 1942, the Museum of Modern Art in New York put the Committee’s vision into practice with a widely heralded propaganda exhibition entitled Road to Victory. Most American art shows at the time featured images of more or less identical sizes hung in a row at eye level, but this one mounted images of all sizes overhead, at the viewer’s feet, and everywhere in between. A path wound through the forest of photographs. The pictures were carefully chosen to spark patriotic fervor, but judging from reviews, it was the manner of their display that captivated the show’s audience. As one critic put it, the show did not seek to “mold” its visitors’ beliefs, “for that word smacks of the Fascist concept of dominating men’s minds.” It simply invited Americans to walk down the road to war, individually unique, yet collectively united. Another reviewer wrote: “It is this inescapable sense of identity—the individual spectator identifying himself with the whole—that makes the event so moving.”



The first electronic computer would not be unveiled until 1946, and the internet was still decades away. Yet the Committee’s vision became central to how we think about computers today when several of its members began to collaborate with a mathematician named Norbert Wiener. In the first years of the war, Wiener and his MIT colleagues were trying to design a more accurate antiaircraft defense system. Antiaircraft gunners would only be able to shoot down enemy planes reliably if they could predict where the planes would be when the gunners’ shells reached the sky. At the time, there was no way to make that prediction with any certainty, since both gunner and pilot were capable of random movements. Wiener tried to solve this problem by imagining the gunner, the antiaircraft gun, the enemy pilot, and the enemy plane as elements in a single system whose behavior could be represented mathematically.

Wiener’s antiaircraft predictor never worked on the battlefield. But his insight that the behavior of both machines and human beings could be represented through computation became a founding principle of computer science. In 1946, it also became a founding principle of a new political vision. That year, Wiener and members of his scientific community traveled to New York to meet with a group of sociologists and psychologists, Mead and Bateson of the Committee for National Morale prominent among them. Together, the social and laboratory scientists began to outline a vision of a liberal world modeled and managed by computers, a vision that they would develop over the next seven years, and that would become one of the most influential intellectual movements of the twentieth century: cybernetics.

In 1950, Wiener published The Human Use of Human Beings, an enormously popular introduction to the new field that argued that modern society operated through a series of information exchanges, just like the antiaircraft predictor. Reporters and social scientists gathered data; intellectuals, business leaders, and politicians processed it; and, ultimately, the systems they controlled took action. When working properly, such a process would naturally tend toward equilibrium—that is, social order. And computers, Wiener argued, could help improve the flow of information by supplying decision-makers with better data faster. “Fascists, Strong Men in Business, and Government . . . prefer an organization in which all orders come from above, and none return,” wrote Wiener. The solution to totalitarianism, he argued, was to recognize the world as a system of leveled, distributed communication that could be modeled and managed by computers. The proper way to achieve the Committee’s vision and democratize society, his argument implied, was to take power away from politicians and put it in the hands of engineers.

Wiener’s writings fired the imaginations of an unlikely group of young Americans, members of the Sixties counterculture who would go on to have an outsized impact on the computer industry. Between 1965 and 1973, as many as 750,000 Americans left their apartments and suburban houses and created new collective communities. A few of these communes were religious, but most were secular gatherings of white, middle- and upper-middle-class young people seeking to leave mainstream America behind. In northern California, refugees from Haight-Ashbury migrated north, to the woods of Mendocino, and east, to the high plains of Colorado and the mountains of New Mexico. Some even set up shop in the hills around Stanford University, overlooking what we now call Silicon Valley.

Elsewhere I’ve called this generation of pilgrims the “New Communalists” to distinguish them from members of the New Left, with whom they often disagreed. Unlike the young dissidents who formed parties and wrote manifestos, the New Communalists hoped to do away with politics entirely. They wanted to organize their communities around a shared mind-set, a unified consciousness. Many agreed with Charles Reich when he wrote in his 1970 bestseller, The Greening of America, that industrial society offered “a robot life, in which man is deprived of his own being, and he becomes instead a mere role, occupation, or function.” According to Reich, the solution was to cultivate a new consciousness of one’s own desires and needs, of the connections between one’s body, one’s mind, and the natural world. Such a consciousness, he explained, could become the foundation of a new kind of society, one that would be nonhierarchical and collaborative.

Watching this migration take shape was Stewart Brand, a former multimedia artist and sometime member of Ken Kesey’s psychedelic wrecking crew, the Merry Pranksters. In 1968, Brand and his wife Lois drove their aging pickup truck to a string of communes to see what the new settlers needed in the way of tools. That fall, the Brands set up shop in Menlo Park, California, not far from where Facebook’s headquarters stand today, and began to publish a document that quickly became required reading across the counterculture: the Whole Earth Catalog. Despite its name, the Catalog did not actually sell anything. Instead, it collected recommendations for tools that might be useful to people headed back to the land. One of those tools was Norbert Wiener’s first book, Cybernetics. Another was an early and massive Hewlett-Packard calculator.

The New Communalists eschewed what Reich called the “machine world” of tanks and bombs and the industrial bureaucracies that produced them. The rule-bound hierarchies of the corporation and the state, they thought, alienated their members from their own feelings and turned them into the kind of buttoned-­down apparatchiks who could launch a nuclear war. Even so, the New Communalists embraced small technologies that they hoped would help them live as independent citizens within the kind of universe that Wiener and the Committee had described, a universe in which all things were interlinked by information. The Catalog gave readers access to plans for Buckminster Fuller’s geodesic domes and guides to everything from cheap travel to boatbuilding. At a time when it could be difficult to find a commune if you didn’t know someone who lived on one, the Catalog also became a map of the commune world and its concerns. As the first nodes of the internet were being wired together, the Catalog became a paperbound search engine.

The future leaders of Silicon Valley took notice. Steve Jobs, who had spent some time on a commune called All One Farm, would later call the Catalog “one of the bibles of my generation. . . . It was sort of like Google in paperback form, thirty-five years before Google came along.” Alan Kay, whose designs for a graphical user interface would shape several generations of Apple computers, explained that he and his colleagues saw the Catalog as an information system in its own right. In that sense, he said, he “thought of the Whole Earth Catalog as a print version of what the internet was going to be.”

By the mid-1980s, computers were small enough to sit on desks, and individual users were able to type messages to one another in real time. Most of the communes had collapsed, but the computer industry in northern California was growing rapidly, and it welcomed former communards. Brand worked with Larry Brilliant, who would later help launch Google’s philanthropy division, ­Google.org, to design an online discussion system known as the Whole Earth ’Lectronic Link or WELL. On the WELL, users dialed in to a server where they saw messages from other users in threaded conversations. Howard Rheingold, a journalist and early member, believed that the WELL was a melding of the minds, a kind of virtual community. “Personal computers and the PC industry,” he wrote later, “were created by young iconoclasts who had seen the LSD revolution fizzle, the political revolution fail. Computers for the people was the latest battle in the same campaign.”

By the end of the decade, when Reagan hailed the “David of the microchip,” many in Silicon Valley believed they had the tools to create the kind of person-centered democracy that the Committee had envisioned. They would achieve it through open conversation spaces like the WELL, engineered public spheres in which individuals gave voice to their experiences, gathered feedback from their peers, and changed their behavior accordingly. They shared Wiener’s faith in the power of information systems to liberate those who used them, and the Committee’s confidence that, given the chance to express themselves, individuals could create their own social order, without the need for top-down government control. If the mass-media era had brought us Hitler and Stalin, they believed, the internet would bring us back our individuality. Finally, we could do away with hierarchy, bureaucracy, and totalitarianism. Finally, we could just be ourselves, together.

Today, that sense of utopian mission persists throughout Silicon Valley. A month after Trump took office, Mark Zuckerberg laid out his social vision in a Facebook post entitled “Building Global Community.” Though only a few thousand words long, the document is every bit as ambitious as Wiener’s The Human Use of Human Beings. Like Wiener, Zuckerberg envisions a world in which individuals, communities, and nations create an ideal social order through the constant exchange of information—that is, through staying “connected.” “Our greatest opportunities are now global—like spreading prosperity and freedom, promoting peace and understanding, lifting people out of poverty, and accelerating science,” he wrote, sounding much like a representative of the Cold War–era State Department. “In times like these,” he continued, “the most important thing we at Facebook can do is develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a global community that works for all of us.”

For Zuckerberg, as for much of the left today, the key to a more egalitarian society lies in the freeing of individual voices, the expression of different lived experiences, and the forming of social groups around shared identities. But Facebook has tried to enable this kind of society by creating privately owned, for-profit digital technologies. As Zuckerberg put it, echoing the goals of the Whole Earth Catalog fifty years before, “Our commitment is to continue improving our tools to give you the power to share your experience.” Engineers like Zuckerberg or, for that matter, Wiener, have little interest in party politics: if you want to change the world, you don’t lobby or vote; you build new technologies.

This view has proved enormously profitable across Silicon Valley. By justifying the belief that for-profit systems are the best way to improve public life, it has helped turn the expression of individual experience into raw material that can be mined, processed, and sold. The big social-media companies, which often began with a dream of making WELL-like virtual communities at scale, have now become radically commercialized and devoted to surveillance at every level. On the WELL, users listened to each other, trying to get a feel for what kinds of people they were and how they might work together. Now user data is optimized and retailed automatically, to advertisers and other media firms, in real time. Computers track conversations and extract patterns at light speed, rendering them profitable. In 2017, Facebook reported annual revenue of more than $40 billion.

Social media’s ability to simultaneously solicit and surveil communication has not only turned the dream of individualized, expressive democracy into a fountain of wealth. It has turned it into the foundation of a new kind of authoritarianism. Fascists used to be distinguished by their penchant for obedience, submission, and self-erasure, with the power of public emotional expression reserved for the dictator. That is why both Wiener and the Committee stressed the qualities of independence and self-awareness in the democratic personality. And it was against the background of fascism that, during and after the 1960s, Vietnam protestors, civil-rights activists, feminists, queer-rights activists, and other members of the myriad communities who drove the rise of identity politics asserted their individual, lived experience as the basis of their right to political power. If the essence of totalitarianism was collective self-effacement, the foundation of democracy would have to be the assertion of collective individuality.

Today, radio and television talk shows, podcasts, blogs, and, of course, social media are part of a new media ecosystem that has rendered the voicing of one’s experiences so easy and powerful as to turn it into an appealing tool for the right as well as the left. Figures such as Richard Spencer, for instance, have adopted the playful, confessional style of online influencers everywhere. Since Spencer coined the euphemistic term in 2008, the “alt-right” has come to shelter white nationalists, anti-Semites, radical misogynists, and neo-Nazis. What holds the movement together in the public eye is its savvy use of social media. Over the past two years, scholars at the Data & Society Research Institute, an independent think tank in New York, have been tracking the rise of the alt-right online. In a series of reports, they have revealed a world in which the kinds of men who chanted “Jews will not replace us!” in Char­lottesville, Virginia, present themselves in the bright, first-person style of online makeup instructors. They aim to be read as whole people—witty, warm, and authentically themselves.

Rebecca Lewis, a Data & Society researcher who is now a ­PhD student at Stanford, has studied sixty-five such right-wing influencers on ­YouTube. Most are masters of microcelebrity. They brand themselves with care, spark attention-getting controversy wherever possible, link to one another’s websites, appear on one another’s ­YouTube shows, and optimize their video feeds for search engines. Despite their intellectual differences, Lewis points out that they have been able to create the impression that they are a unified political force. Their chummy, millennial-­friendly style, she argues, goes a long way toward suggesting that really, you know, anti-Semitism and violent, racist riots are the kind of thing that thinking young people everywhere ought to embrace.

Alt-right figures have consciously modeled their online behavior after the political logic of the 1960s counterculture, and particularly its New Communalist wing. In a 2016 interview with The Atlantic, Spencer could have been channeling an entire generation of commune-builders when he said, “We are really trying to change the world, and we are going to do that by changing consciousness, and by changing how people see the world, and how they see themselves.” The Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, put the project less benignly in a leaked style guide: “One should study the ways that Jews conquered our culture in the 1960s. . . . They created a subculture by infesting certain elements of the existing culture. That is what we aim to do.”

The identity-based movements of the left have been extraordinarily effective at changing American culture, and the alt-right clearly hopes to copy their success. By claiming the mantle of rebellion, the alt-right can take to the streets in protest as if anticolonialism in the classroom were a new Vietnam War. They can argue that their ability to spew hate is in fact a civil right, and that their movement is simply a new version of the Free Speech Movement of 1964. On ­YouTube, they can tell stories of their own conversion to conservatism in an idiom pioneered by gay activists: the coming-out story. Lewis notes that the conservative activist Candace Owens rose to YouTube fame after she posted a humorous video on her channel, Red Pill Black, that revealed her political beliefs to her parents. Owens titled it, “Mom, Dad?. . . I’m a Conservative.” When friends and families find their new politics reprehensible, the converts need not engage. Their storytelling style alone implies that racism and nationalism are in fact just as natural and true as a person’s sexuality.

Pundits on the left are fond of reminding us of how Trump storms and fulminates, the White House itself unable to contain his petulance and rage. Those same pundits then marvel that around 40 percent of the American people still think he is doing a good job. What they fail to understand is that Trump has mastered the politics of authenticity for a new media age. What mainstream analysts see as psychological weakness, Trump’s fans see as the man just being himself. What’s more, his anger, his rants, and his furious narcissism act out the feelings of people who believe they have been dispossessed by immigrants, women, and people of color. Trump is not only true to his own emotions. He is the personification of his supporters’ grievances. He is to his political base what Hitler was to many Germans, or Mussolini to Italians—the living embodiment of the nation.

Here, the identity-centered liberalism that has dominated so much of public life since the Second World War has come full circle. Its victories have been many, from civil rights to legalized abortion and gay marriage, and they have dramatically changed American life for the better. But in the form of people like Trump and Spencer, the performance of individualism—the revelation of the whole person in the context of public debate that was meant for so long to be a bulwark against totalitarianism—has also allowed today’s authoritarians to claim a new legitimacy. Fifty years ago, the New Left marched on the Pentagon, hoping to undermine the military-industrial complex behind the Vietnam War. Today, Trump attacks the FBI and the Justice Department, hoping to undermine a fantastical Mino­taur called “the deep state.” Fifty years ago, the counterculture hoped to bring about a world in which individuals could be more authentically themselves, and in which the hierarchies of organizations and states would disappear. Today, those hierarchical institutions are all that stand between us and a cult of personality.



If the communes of the 1960s teach us anything, they teach us that a community that replaces laws and institutions with a cacophony of individual voices courts bigotry and collapse. Without explicit, democratically adopted rules for distributing resources, the communes allowed unspoken cultural norms to govern their lives. Women were frequently relegated to the most traditional of gender roles; informal racial segregation was common; and charismatic leaders—almost always men—took charge. Even the most well-intentioned communes began to replicate the racial and sexual dynamics that dominated mainstream America. Lois Brand recalled that on the communes they visited, men would do “important stuff” like framing up domes, while she and the other women would put small amounts of bleach in the water to keep residents from getting sick.

For all their sophistication, the algorithms that drive Facebook cannot prevent the recrudescence of the racism and sexism that plagued the communes. On the contrary, social-media platforms have helped bring them to life at a global scale. And now those systems are deeply entrenched. Social-media technologies have spawned enormous corporations that make money by mapping and mining the social world. Like the extraction industries of previous centuries, they are highly motivated to expand their territories and bend local elites to their will. Without substantial pressure, they have little incentive to serve a public beyond their shareholders. Companies such as Facebook and Twitter are coming to dominate our public sphere to the same degree that Standard Oil once dominated the petroleum industry. They too should be subject to antitrust laws. We have every right to apply the same standards to social-media companies that we have applied to other extraction industries. We cannot allow them to pollute the lands they mine, or to injure their workers, nearby residents, or those who use their products.

As Columbia law professor Tim Wu has argued, social-media companies are enabling a new form of censorship by allowing human and robotic users to flood the inboxes of their enemies in an effort to keep them quiet, and there are little-used provisions of the First Amendment that could radically slow these processes. We also have alternatives to traditional private or stockholder ownership of our social media. We can already see some of the possibilities in sharing practices developed within the computer industry, such as open-source code and “copyleft” rights management. An international community of scholars and technologists has looked for some time at creating cooperatively owned online platforms. As Nathan Schneider, a professor at the University of Colorado and one of the movement’s leaders, has pointed out, member-owned cooperatives generate 11 percent of the electricity sold in America. If social media are equally important to our lives, he asks, why shouldn’t we take a hand in owning and managing them?

That question is a good one, but it doesn’t quite capture the historical specifics of our situation. The new authoritarianism represented by Spencer and Trump is not only a product of who owns today’s media. It’s also a product of the political vision that helped drive the creation of social media in the first place—a vision that distrusts public ownership and the political process while celebrating engineering as an alternative form of governance. Since the Second World War, critics have challenged the legitimacy of our civic institutions simply on the grounds that they were bureaucratic and slow to change. Yet organizations such as hospitals demonstrate the value of these features. They remind us that a democracy must do more than allow its citizens to speak. It must help them live. Above all, it must work to distribute our wealth more equably and to ensure that every member of society has both independence and security. This is work that requires intense negotiation among groups with conflicting material interests, and, often, deep-seated cultural differences. It requires the existence of institutions that can preserve and enforce the results of those negotiations over time. And it requires that those institutions be obliged to serve the public before tending to their own profits.

Today’s social media will never be able to do the difficult, embodied work of democracy. Computer-­supported interconnection is simply no substitute for face-to-face negotiation, long-term collaboration, and the hard work of living together. The Black Lives Matter and #MeToo movements have taught us that social media can be a powerful force for liberating us from the fiction that all is well just as it is. But the attention these activists have brought to their causes will mean little if the changes they call for are not enshrined in explicit, enforceable laws. Even though the American state can be inefficient, unfair, corrupt, and discriminatory, the logic of representation that underlies it remains the most effective engine we have for ensuring the equable distribution of our collective wealth.

Over time, as new media have saturated our public lives, and as the children of the 1960s have grown into the elites of today, we have learned that if we want a place on the political stage, we need to make our interior lives outwardly visible. We need to say who we are. We need to confess. When Richard Spencer calls himself a member of a victimized minority, or when Donald Trump bares his anger on Twitter, they are using the same tactics once deployed by the protesters of the 1960s or, for that matter, by participants in the #MeToo movement today. To make this observation is not to say that their causes are in any way equivalent—far from it. But whether they are lying like Trump or revealing long-buried truths like the members of #MeToo, those who would claim power in the public sphere today must speak in a deeply personal idiom. They must display the authentic individuality that members of the Committee for National Morale once thought could be the only bulwark against totalitarianism, abroad and at home.

Speaking our truths has always been necessary, but it will never be sufficient to sustain our democracy. It’s time to let go of the fantasy that engineers can do our politics for us, and that all we need to do to change the world is to voice our desires in the public forums they build. For much of the twentieth century, Americans on both the left and right believed that the organs of the state were the enemy and that bureaucracy was totalitarian by definition. Our challenge now is to reinvigorate the institutions they rejected and do the long, hard work of turning the truths of our experience into legislation.
N O V E L  
  
Defining the genre
==================
 
A novel is a long, fictional narrative which describes intimate human experiences. The novel in the modern era usually makes use of a literary prose style, and the development of the prose novel at
this time was encouraged by innovations in printing, and the introduction of cheap paper, in the 15th century.

The present English (and Spanish) word for a long work of prose fiction derives from the Italian novella for "new", "news", or "short story of something new", itself from the Latin novella, a singular
noun use of the neuter plural of novellus, diminutive of novus, meaning "new".[note 1] Most European languages use the word "romance" (as in French, Dutch, Russian, Slovene, Serbo-Croatian, Romanian,
Danish, Swedish and Norwegian "roman"; German "Roman"; Portuguese "romance" and Italian "romanzo") for extended narratives.

A fictional narrative
---------------------
Fictionality is most commonly cited as distinguishing novels from historiography. However this can be a problematic criterion. Throughout the early modern period authors of historical narratives would
often include inventions rooted in traditional beliefs in order to embellish a passage of text or add credibility to an opinion. Historians would also invent and compose speeches for didactic
purposes. Novels can, on the other hand, depict the social, political and personal realities of a place and period with clarity and detail not found in works of history.

Literary prose
--------------
While prose rather than verse became the standard of the modern novel, the ancestors of the modern European novel include verse epics in the Romance language of southern France, especially those by
Chretien de Troyes (late 12th century), and in Middle English (Geoffrey Chaucer's (c. 1343 – 1400) The Canterbury Tales).[8] Even in the 19th century, fictional narratives in verse, such as Lord
Byron's Don Juan (1824), Alexander Pushkin's Yevgeniy Onegin (1833), and Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Aurora Leigh (1856), competed with prose novels. Vikram Seth's The Golden Gate (1986), composed of
590 Onegin stanzas, is a more recent example of the verse novel.

Content: intimate experience
----------------------------
Both in 12th-century Japan and 15th-century Europe, prose fiction created intimate reading situations. On the other hand, verse epics, including the Odyssey and Aeneid, had been recited to a select
audiences, though this was a more intimate experience than the performance of plays in theaters.

A new world of Individualistic fashion, personal views, intimate feelings, secret anxieties, "conduct" and "gallantry" spread with novels and the associated prose-romance.

Length
------
The novel is today the longest genre of narrative prose fiction, followed by the novella, short story, and flash fiction. However, in the 17th century critics saw the romance as of epic length and the
novel as its short rival. A precise definition of the differences in length between these types of fiction, is, however, not possible.The requirement of length has been traditionally connected with
the notion that a novel should encompass the "totality of life."[10]

The length of a novel can still be important because most literary awards use length as a criterion in the ranking system.

Early novels
============

Although early forms of the novel are to be found in a number of places, including classical Rome, 10th– and 11th-century Japan, and Elizabethan England, the European novel is often said to have begun
with Don Quixote in 1605.[11]

Early works of extended fictional prose, or novels, include works in Latin like the Satyricon by Petronius (c. 50 AD), and The Golden Ass by Apuleius (c. 150 AD), works in Sanskrit such as the 6th– or
7th-century Dasakumaracarita by Dandin, and in the 7th-century Kadambari by Banabhatta, the 11th-century Japanese Tale of Genji by Murasaki Shikibu, the 12th-century Hayy ibn Yaqdhan (or Philosophus
Autodidactus, the 17th-century Latin title) by Ibn Tufail, who wrote in Arabic, the 13th-century Theologus Autodidactus by Ibn al-Nafis, another Arabic novelist, and in Chinese in the 14th-century
Romance of the Three Kingdoms by Luo Guanzhong.

Murasaki Shikibu's Tale of Genji (1010) has been described as the world's first novel[12][13] and shows essentially all the qualities for which Marie de La Fayette's novel La Princesse de Cleves
(1678) has been praised: individuality of perception, an interest in character development, and psychological observation.[14] Urbanization and the spread of printed books in Song Dynasty (960-1279)
China led to the evolution of oral storytelling into consciously fictional novels by the Ming dynasty (1368–1644). Parallel European developments did not occur for centuries, and awaited the time when
the availability of paper allowed for similar opportunities.

By contrast, Ibn Tufail's Hayy ibn Yaqdhan and Ibn al-Nafis' Theologus Autodidactus are works of didactic philosophy and theology. In this sense, Hayy ibn Yaqdhan would be considered an early example
of a philosophical novel,[15][16] while Theologus Autodidactus would be considered an early theological novel.[17] Hayy ibn Yaqdhan, with its story of a human outcast surviving on an island, is also
likely to have influenced Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe (1719), because the work was available in an English edition in 1711.[18]

Epic poetry exhibits some similarities with the novel, and the Western tradition of the novel reaches back into the field of verse epics, though again not in an unbroken tradition. The epics of Asia,
such as the Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh (1300–1000 BC), and Indian epics such as the Ramayana (400 BCE and 200 CE), and Mahabharata (4th century BC) were as unknown in early modern Europe as was the
Anglo-Saxon epic of Beowulf (c.750–1000 AD), which was rediscovered in the late 18th century and early 19th century. Other non-European works, such as the Torah, the Koran, and the Bible, are full of
stories, and thus have also had a significant influence on the development of prose narratives, and therefore the novel. Then at the beginning of the 18th century, French prose translations brought
Homer's works to a wider public, who accepted them as forerunners of the novel. [note 3]

Classical Greek and Roman prose narratives [note 4] included a didactic strand, with the philosopher Plato's (c.425-c.348 BC) dialogues; a satirical dimension with Petronius' Satyricon; the incredible
stories of Lucian of Samosata; and Lucius Apuleius' proto-picaresque The Golden Ass, as well as the heroic romances of the Greeks Heliodorus and Longus. Longus is the author of the famous Greek novel,
Daphnis and Chloe (2nd century A.D.).

Medieval period 1100–1500
=========================

Chivalric Romances
------------------
Romance or chivalric romance is a type of narrative in prose or verse popular in the aristocratic circles of High Medieval and Early Modern Europe. They were marvel-filled adventures, often of a
knight-errant with heroic qualities, who undertakes a quest, yet it is "the emphasis on heterosexual love and courtly manners distinguishes it from the chanson de geste and other kinds of epic, which
involve heroism."[19] In later romances, particularly those of French origin, there is a marked tendency to emphasize themes of courtly love.

Originally, romance literature was written in Old French, Anglo-Norman and Occitan, later, in English, in Italian and German. During the early 13th century, romances were increasingly written as
prose.

The shift from verse to prose dates from the early 13th century. The Prose Lancelot or Vulgate Cycle includes passages from that period. This collection indirectly led to Thomas Malory's Le Morte
d'Arthur of the early 1470s. Prose became increasingly attractive, because It enabled writers to associate popular stories with serious histories traditionally composed in prose, and could also be
more easily translated.[20]

Popular literature also drew on themes of romance, but with ironic, satiric or burlesque intent. Romances reworked legends, fairy tales, and history, but by about 1600 they were out of fashion, and
Miguel de Cervantes famously burlesqued them in Don Quixote (1605). Still, the modern image of medieval is more influenced by the romance than by any other medieval genre, and the word "medieval"
evokes knights, distressed damsels, dragons, and such tropes.[21]

Around 1800, the connotations of "romance" was modified with the development Gothic fiction.

The novella
-----------
The term novel refers back to the production of short stories that remained part of a European oral culture of storytelling into the late 19th century. Fairy tales, jokes, and humorous stories
designed to make a point in a conversation, and the exemplum a priest would insert in a sermon belong into this tradition. Written collections of such stories circulated in a wide range of products
from practical compilations of examples designed for the use of clerics to compilations of various stories such as Boccaccio's Decameron (1354) and Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (1386–1400). The
Decameron (1354) one hundred novelle told by ten people, seven women and three men, fleeing the Black Death by escaping from Florence to the Fiesole hills, in 1348.

Renaissance period: 1500-1700
=============================

The modern distinction between history and fiction did not exist at this time and the grossest improbabilities pervade many historical accounts found in the early modern print market. William Caxton's
1485 edition of Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur (1471) was sold as a true history, though the story unfolded in a series of magical incidents and historical improbabilities. Sir John Mandeville's
Voyages, written in the 14th century, but circulated in printed editions throughout the 18th century,[22] was filled with natural wonders, which were accepted as fact, like the one-footed Ethiopians
who use their extremity as an umbrella against the desert sun. Both works eventually came to be viewed as works of fiction.

In the 16th and 17th centuries two factors led to the separation of history and fiction. The invention of printing immediately created a new market of comparatively cheap entertainment and knowledge in
the form of chapbooks. The more elegant production of this genre by 17th- and 18th-century authors were belles lettres; that is a market that would be neither low nor academic. The second major
development was the first best-seller of modern fiction, the Spanish Amadis de Gaula, by Garcia Montalvo. However, it was not accepted as an example of belles lettres. The Amadis eventually became the
archetypical romance, in contrast with the modern novel which began to be developed in the 17th century.

Chapbooks
---------
A chapbook is an early type of popular literature printed in early modern Europe. Produced cheaply, chapbooks were commonly small, paper-covered booklets, usually printed on a single sheet folded into
books of 8, 12, 16 and 24 pages. They were often illustrated with crude woodcuts, which sometimes bore no relation to the text. When illustrations were included in chapbooks, they were considered
popular prints. The tradition arose in the 16th century, as soon as printed books became affordable, and rose to its height during the 17th and 18th centuries and Many different kinds of ephemera and
popular or folk literature were published as chapbooks, such as almanacs, children's literature, folk tales, nursery rhymes, pamphlets, poetry, and political and religious tracts.[23]

The term "chapbook" for this type of literature was coined in the 19th century. The corresponding French and German terms are bibliotheque bleue (blue book) and Volksbuch, respectively.[24][25][26]
The principal historical subject matter of chapbooks was abridgements of ancient historians, popular medieval histories of knights, stories of comical heroes, religious legends, and collections of
jests and fables.[27] The new printed books reached the households of urban citizens and country merchants who visited the cities as traders. Cheap printed histories were, in the 17th and 18th
centuries, especially popular among apprentices and younger urban readers of both sexes.[28]

The early modern market, from the 1530s and 1540s, divided into low chapbooks and high market expensive, fashionable, elegant belles lettres. The Amadis and Rabelais' Gargantua and Pantagruel were
important publications with respect to this divide. Both books specifically addressed the new customers of popular histories, rather than readers of belles lettres. The Amadis was a multi–volume
fictional history of style, that aroused a debate about style and elegance as it became the first best-seller of popular fiction. On the other hand, Gargantua and Pantagruel, while it adopted the form
of modern popular history, in fact satirized that genre's stylistic achievements. The division, between low and high literature, became especially visible with books that appeared on both the popular
and belles lettres markets in the course of the 17th and 18th centuries: low chapbooks included abridgments of books such as Miguel Cervantes' Don Quixote (1605/1615)[note 5]

Heroic romances
---------------
Heroic Romance is a genre of imaginative literature, which flourished in the 17th century, principally in France.

The beginnings of modern fiction in France took a pseudo-bucolic form, and the celebrated L'Astree, (1610) of Honore d'Urfe (1568-1625), which is the earliest French novel, is properly styled a
pastoral. But this ingenious and diffuse production, in which all is artificial, was the source of a vast literature, which took many and diverse ms. Although its action was, in the main, languid and
sentimental, there was a side of the Astree which encouraged that extravagant love of glory, that spirit of " panache," which was now rising to its height in France. That spirit it was which animated
Marin le Roy de Gomberville (1603-1674), who was the inventor of what have since been known as the Heroical Romances. In these there was experienced a violent recrudescence of the old medieval
elements of romance, the impossible valour devoted to a pursuit of the impossible beauty, but the whole clothed in the language and feeling and atmosphere of the age in which the books were written.
In order to give point to the chivalrous actions of the heroes, it was always hinted that they were well-known public characters of the day in a romantic disguise.

Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). Encyclopedia Britannica (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. A publication now in the public domain.

Satirical romances
------------------
Stories of witty cheats were an integral part of the European novella with its tradition of fabliaux. Significant examples include Till Eulenspiegel (1510), Lazarillo de Tormes (1554),
Grimmelshausen's Simplicissimus Teutsch (1666–1668) and in England Richard Head's The English Rogue (1665). The tradition that developed with these titles focused on a hero and his life. The
adventures led to satirical encounters with the real world with the hero either becoming the pitiable victim or the rogue who exploited the vices of those he met.

A second tradition of satirical romances can be traced back to Heinrich Wittenwiler's Ring (c. 1410) and to Francois Rabelais' Gargantua and Pantagruel (1532–1564), which parodied and satirized heroic
romances, and did this mostly by dragging them into the low realm of the burlesque. Cervantes' Don Quixote (1606/1615) modified the satire of romances: its hero lost contact with reality by reading
too many romances in the Amadisian tradition.

Other important works of the tradition are Paul Scarron's Roman Comique (1651–57), the anonymous French Rozelli with its satire on Europe's religions, Alain-Rene Lesage's Gil Blas (1715–1735), Henry
Fielding's Joseph Andrews (1742) and Tom Jones (1749), and Denis Diderot's Jacques the Fatalist (1773, printed posthumously in 1796).[29]

Histories
---------
A market of literature in the modern sense of the word, that is a separate market for fiction and poetry, did not exist until the late seventeenth century. All books were sold under the rubric of
"History and politicks" in the early 18th century, including pamphlets, memoirs, travel literature, political analysis, serious histories, romances, poetry, and novels.

That fictional histories shared the same space with academic histories and modern journalism had been criticized by historians since the end of the Middle Ages: fictions were "lies" and therefore
hardly justifiable at all. The climate, however, changed in the 1670s.

The romance format of the quasi–historical works of Madame d'Aulnoy, Cesar Vichard de Saint-Real,[30] Gatien de Courtilz de Sandras,[31] and Anne-Marguerite Petit du Noyer, allowed the publication of
histories that dared not risk an unambiguous assertion of their truth. The literary market-place of the late 17th and early 18th century employed a simple pattern of options whereby fictions could
reach out into the sphere of true histories. This permitted its authors to claim they had published fiction, not truth, if they ever faced allegations of libel.

Prefaces and title pages of 17th– and early 18th-century fiction acknowledged this pattern: histories could claim to be romances, but threaten to relate true events, as in the Roman a clef. Other
works could, conversely, claim to be factual histories, yet earn the suspicion that they were wholly invented. A further differentiation was made between private and public history: Daniel Defoe's
Robinson Crusoe was, within this pattern, neither a "romance" nor a "novel". It smelled of romance, yet the preface stated that it should most certainly be read as a true private history.[32]

Cervantes and the modern novel
------------------------------
The rise of the novel as an alternative to the romance began with the publication of Cervantes Novelas Exemplares (1613). It continued with Scarron's Roman Comique (the first part of which appeared in
1651), whose heroes noted the rivalry between French romances and the new Spanish genre.[33]

Late 17th-century critics looked back on the history of prose fiction, proud of the generic shift that had taken place, leading towards the modern novel/novella.[34] The first perfect works in French
were those of Scarron and Madame de La Fayette's "Spanish history" Zayde (1670). The development finally led to her Princesse de Cleves (1678), the first novel with what would become characteristic
French subject matter.[citation needed]

Europe witnessed the generic shift in the titles of works in French published in Holland, which supplied the international market and English publishers exploited the novel/romance controversy in the
1670s and 1680s.[35] Contemporary critics listed the advantages of the new genre: brevity, a lack of ambition to produce epic poetry in prose; the style was fresh and plain; the focus was on modern
life, and on heroes who were neither good nor bad.[36] The novel's potential to become the medium of urban gossip and scandal fuelled the rise of the novel/novella. Stories were offered as allegedly
true recent histories, not for the sake of scandal but strictly for the moral lessons they gave. To prove this, fictionalized names were used with the true names in a separate key. The Mercure Gallant
set the fashion in the 1670s.[37] Collections of letters and memoirs appeared, and were filled with the intriguing new subject matter and the epistolary novel grew from this and led to the first full
blown example of scandalous fiction in Aphra Behn's Love-Letters Between a Nobleman and His Sister (1684/ 1685/ 1687). Before the rise of the literary novel, reading novels had only been a form of
entertainment.[38]

However, one of the earliest English novels, Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe (1719), has elements of the romance, unlike these novels, because of its exotic setting and story of survival in isolation.
Crusoe lacks almost all of the elements found in these new novels: wit, a fast narration evolving around a group of young fashionable urban heroes, along with their intrigues, a scandalous moral,
gallant talk to be imitated, and a brief, conciseness plot.[citation needed] The new developments did, however, lead to Eliza Haywood's epic length novel, Love in Excess (1719/20) and to Samuel
Richardson's Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded (1741).[citation needed] Some literary historians date the beginning of the English novel with Richardson's Pamela, rather than Crusoe [39]

18th century novel
==================

The idea of the "rise of the novel" in the 18th century is especially associated with Ian Watt's important study The Rise of the Novel (1957).[note 6] Ian Watt puts forward the idea that novel was a
"new form" and associates this with the importance placed on realism by novelists such as Daniel Defoe, Samuel Richardson, and Henry Fielding.[40] This theory about the novel in the 18th century led
to the suggestion that the earlier Romance forms of long prose narrative were either not novels or were at least inferior.[41] However, others including Margaret Anne Doody disagree that the novel
originated in the 18th century, arguing that the history of the novel is over two thousands years old, and that in addition the romance tradition continued through the 18th and 19th centuries and
still flourishes today.[42] The idea of the rise of the novel in the 18th century is especially associated with English literary criticism,[42] and most other European languages use the word "roman"
(Portuguese "romance" and Italian "romans") for an extended narratives.[7] Novelist and critic Albert J. Guerard argues, in The Triumph of the Novel (1976), on behalf of the anti-realist "other great
tradition" of the novel that includes Rabelais, Cervantes, Pynchon, Borges, Garcia Marquez, the "Joyce of Finnegans Wake and the Nabokov of Ada", and sees Ian Watt's The Rise of the Novel as
contributing to a confusion between fiction and "real life", "by its insistence on 'formal realism' as implicit in the novel form in general".[43] Guerard suggests that Watt's book is most useful "for
a study of the eighteenth-century novel", but that it "should not be applied to the genre as a whole".[44]

Given these differences in opinion, what happened in the 18th century can best be described, not as the rise of the novel, but the rise of realism in fiction. Indeed, this is what Ian Watt sees as
distinguishing the novel from earlier prose narratives.[45]

Philosophical novel
-------------------
The new 18th-century status of the novel as an object of debate is manifested in the development of philosophical[note 7] and experimental novels.

Philosophical fiction was not exactly new. Plato's dialogues were embedded in fictional narratives. Utopias had added to this production with works from Thomas More's Utopia (1516) to Tommaso
Campanella's City of the Sun (1602). Works such as these had not been read as novels or romances but as philosophical texts. The 1740s saw new editions of More's work under the title that created the
tradition: Utopia: or the happy republic; a philosophical romance (1743).[citation needed]

Voltaire utilised the romance to write philosophy in Micromegas: a comic romance. Being a severe satire upon the philosophy, ignorance, and self-conceit of mankind (1752, English 1753). His Zadig
(1747) and Candide (1759) became central texts of the French Enlightenment and of the modern novel. Jean-Jacques Rousseau bridged the genres with his less fictional Emile: or, On Education (1762).
[citation needed]

Laurence Sterne's The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman (1759–1767) is an experimental work which rejects continuous narration. In it the author not only addresses the reader in his
preface but speaks directly to him or her in his fictional narrative. In addition to his narrative experiments, Sterne has visual experiments, such as a marbled page, a black page to express sorrow,
and a page of lines to show the plot lines of the book. Jonathan Swift's A Tale of a Tub (1704) was an early precursor in this field.[citation needed]

The romance genre in the 18th century
-------------------------------------
The rise of the word novel at the cost of its rival, the romance, remained a Spanish and English phenomenon, and though readers all over Western Europe had welcomed the novel(la) or short history as
an alternative in the second half of the 17th century, only the English and the Spanish had, however, openly discredited the romance.[citation needed]

But the change of taste was brief and Fenelon's Telemachus (1699/1700) already exploited a nostalgia for the old romances with their heroism and professed virtue. Jane Barker explicitly advertised her
Exilius as "A new Romance", "written after the Manner of Telemachus", in 1715.[46] Robinson Crusoe spoke of his own story as a "romance", though in the preface to the third volume, published in 1720,
Defoe attacks all who said "that [...] the Story is feign'd, that the Names are borrow'd, and that it is all a Romance; that there never were any such Man or Place".

The late 18th century brought an answer with the Romantic Movement's readiness to reclaim the word romance, especially with the gothic romance, but the historical novels of Walter Scott also have a
strong romance element.[citation needed] Robinson Crusoe became a "novel" in this period appearing now as a work of the new realistic fiction that the 18th century had created.[citation needed]

Throughout the 19th century, romances continued to be written in Britain by writers like Emily Bronte,[5] and in America by the dark romantic novelists Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Herman Melville.[47]

The sentimental novel
---------------------
Sentimental novels relied on emotional responses, both from their readers and characters. They feature scenes of distress and tenderness, and the plot is arranged to advance emotions rather than
action. The result is a valorization of "fine feeling," displaying the characters as a model for refined, sensitive emotional effect. The ability to display feelings was thought to show character and
experience, and to shape social life and relations.[48]

An example of this genre of fiction is Samuel Richardson's Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded (1740), composed "to cultivate the Principles of Virtue and Religion in the Minds of the Youth of Both Sexes"
focuses on the potential victim, a heroine of all the modern virtues vulnerable through her social status and her occupation as servant of the libertine who falls in love with her. Eventually, she
shows the power to reform her antagonist.[citation needed]

Male heroes adopted the new sentimental character traits in the 1760s. Laurence Sterne's Yorick, the hero of the Sentimental Journey (1768) did so with an enormous amount of humour. Oliver Goldsmith's
Vicar of Wakefield (1766) and Henry Mackenzie's Man of Feeling (1771) produced the far more serious role models.[citation needed]

The virtuous production inspired a sub- and counterculture of pornographic novels. Greek and Latin authors in modern translations had provided elegant transgressions on the market of the belles
lettres for the last century.[49] Satirical novels like Richard Head's English Rogue (1665) had led their heroes through urban brothels, women authors like Aphra Behn had offered their heroines
alternative careers as precursors of the 19th-century femmes fatales – without creating a subculture.[note 8] The market for belles lettres had been openly transgressive as long as it did not find any
reflections in other media. The new production beginning with works like John Cleland's Fanny Hill (1748) differed in that it offered almost exact reversals of the plot lines the virtuous production
demanded. Fanny Hill is introduced to a life of prostitution, learns to enjoy her part and establishes herself as a free and economically independent individual, in editions one could only expect to
buy under the counter.[50]

Openly uncontrollable conflicts arrived in the 1770s with Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther (1774). The titular hero realised how impossible it had become for him to integrate
into the new conformist society. Pierre Choderlos de Laclos's Les Liaisons dangereuses (1782) shows the other extreme, with a group of aristocrats playing games of intrigue and amorality.[citation
needed]

The social context of the 18th century novel
--------------------------------------------
- Changing cultural status
By around 1700, fiction was no longer a predominantly aristocratic entertainment, and printed books had soon gained the power to reach readers of almost all classes, though the reading habits differed
and to follow fashions remained a privilege. Spain was a trendsetter into the 1630s but French authors superseded Cervantes, de Quevedo, and Aleman in the 1640s. As Huet was to note in 1670, the
change was one of manners.[note 9] The new French works taught a new, on the surface freer, gallant exchange between the sexes as the essence of life at the French court.

The situation changed again from 1660s into the 1690s when works by French authors were published in Holland out of the reach of French censors.[51] Dutch publishing houses pirated of fashionable
books from France and created a new market of political and scandalous fiction. This led to a market of European rather than French fashions in the early 18th century.[52]

By the 1680s fashionable political European novels had inspired a second wave of private scandalous publications and generated new productions of local importance. Women authors reported on politics
and on their private love affairs in The Hague and in London. German students imitated them to boast of their private amours in fiction.[53] The London, the anonymous international market of the
Netherlands, publishers in Hamburg and Leipzig generated new public spheres.[note 10] Once private individuals, such as students in university towns and daughters of London's upper class began write
novels based on questionable reputations, the public began to call for a reformation of manners. [note 11]

Reform became the main goal of the second generation of 18th-century novelists who, by the mid-century, openly welcomed the change of climate that had first been promoted in journals such as The
Spectator. The Spectator Number 10 had stated that the aim was now "to enliven morality with wit, and to temper wit with morality […] to bring philosophy out of the closets and libraries, schools and
colleges, to dwell in clubs and assemblies, at tea-tables and coffeehouses"). Constructive criticism of novels had until then been rare.[note 12] The first treatise on the history of the novel was a
preface to Marie de La Fayette's novel Zayde (1670).

New journals like The Spectator and The Tatler at the beginning of the century had reviews of novels. New "literary journals" like Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's Briefe, die neuste Literatur betreffend
(1758) appeared in the middle of the century with reviews of art and fiction. By the 1780s reviews played had an important role in introducing new works of fiction to the public. A later development
was the introduction of novels into school curricula and later that of universities.

- The acceptance of novels as literature
The French churchman and scholar Pierre Daniel Huet's Traitte de l'origine des romans (1670) laid the ground for a greater acceptance of the novel as literature in the early 18th century. The
theologian had not only dared to praise fictions, but he had also explained techniques of theological reading, for the interpretation of fiction, which was a novelty: an individual could read novels
and romances to gain insight into foreign and distant cultures as well as into his or her own culture.[note 13] He noted that Christ had used parables to teach.[54]

The decades around 1700 saw the appearance of new editions of Petronius, Lucian, and Heliodorus of Emesa.[note 14] The publishers equipped them with prefaces that referred to Huet's treatise.[note 15]
and the canon it had established. Exotic fictions entered the market that gave insight into the Islamic mind. Furthermore, The Book of One Thousand and One Nights was first published in Europe from
1704 to 1715 in French, and then translated immediately into English and German, and was seen as a contribution to Huet's history of romances.[note 16]

New classics were added to the market and the English, Select Collection of Novels in six volumes (1720–22), is a milestone in this development. It included Huet's Treatise, along with the European
tradition of the modern novel of the day: that is, novella from Machiavelli's to Marie de La Fayette's masterpieces. Aphra Behn's prose fictions had appeared as "novels" in the 1680s but when
reprinted in collections, her works became classics. Fenelon's Telemachus (1699/1700) became a classic within three years after its publication. New authors now entered the market ready to use their
own personal names as authors of fiction. Eliza Haywood followed the footsteps of Aphra Behn when, in 1719, she used her name with unprecedented pride.

19th century novel
==================

Romanticism
-----------
The very word romanticism is connected to the idea of romance, and the romance genre experienced a revival, at the end of the 18th century, with gothic fiction. The origin of the gothic romance is
attributed to English author Horace Walpole, with his 1764 novel The Castle of Otranto, subtitled (in its second edition) "A Gothic Story". Other important works are Ann Radcliffe's The Mysteries of
Udolpho (1794) and 'Monk' Lewis's The Monk (1795).

The new romances challenged the idea that the novel involved a realistic depictions of life, and destabilized the difference the critics had been trying to establish, between serious classical art and
popular fiction. Gothic romances exploited the grotesque,[55] and some critics thought that their subject matter deserved less credit than the worst medieval tales of Arthurian knighthood, and that if
the Amadis had troubled Don Quixote with curious fantasies, the new romantic tales were worse: they described a nightmare world, and explored sexual fantasies.[56]

The authors of this new type of fiction could be (and were) accused of exploiting all available topics to thrill, arouse, or horrify their audience. These new romantic novelists, at the same time,
claimed to explore the entire realm of fictionality. New, psychological interpreters, in the early 19th century, read these works as encounters with the deeper hidden truth of the human imagination:
this included sexuality, anxieties, and insatiable desires. Under such psychological readings, novels were described as exploring deeper human motives, and it was suggested that such artistic freedom
would reveal what had not previously been openly visible.

The romances of de Sade, Les 120 Journees de Sodome (1785), Poe's Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque (1840), Mary Shelley, Frankenstein (1818), and E. T. A. Hoffmann, Die Elixiere des Teufels
(1815), would later attract 20th-century psychoanalysts and supply the images for 20th- and 21st-century horror films, love romances, fantasy novels, role-playing computer games, and the surrealists.

The ancient romancers most commonly wrote fiction about the remote past with little attention to historical reality. Walter Scott's historical novel Waverley (1814) broke with this earlier tradition
of historical romance, and he was "the inventor of the true historical novel".[57] At the same time he was a romantic and was influenced by gothic romance. He had collaborated "with the most famous of
the Gothic novelists 'Monk' Lewis" on Tales of Wonder in 1801.[58] With his Waverley novels Scott "hoped to do for the Scottish border" what Goethe and other German poets "had done for the Middle
Ages, "and make its past live again in modern romance".[59] Scott's novels "are in the mode he himself defined as romance, 'the interest of which turns upon marvelous and uncommon incidents'".[60] He
used his imagination to re-evaluate history by rendering things, incidents and protagonists in the way only the novelist could do. His work remained historical fiction, yet it questioned existing
historical perceptions. The use of historical research was an important tool: Scott, the novelist, resorted to documentary sources as any historian would have done, but as a romantic artist he gave
his subject a deeper imaginative and emotional significance.[60] By combining research with "marvelous and uncommon incidents", Scott attracted a far wider market than any historian could, and he
became the most famous novelist of his generation, throughout Europe.[61]

The Victorian period: 1837-1901
-------------------------------
In the 19th century the relationship between authors, publishers, and readers, changed. Most of the early 18th century fiction had published anonymously. Authors had offered their manuscripts and
received all the payment to be expected for the manuscript. The new copyright laws introduced in the 18th and 19th centuries[62][note 19] promised royalties on all future editions. Another change in
the 19th century was that novelists began to read their works in theatres, halls, and book shops.[63]

Fiction was altered by these changes, including the creation of more difficult works. New novels also openly addressed current political and social issues, which were being discussed in newspapers and
magazines. The idea of responsibility became a key issue, whether of the citizen, or of the artist. The theoretical debate concentrated on questions around the moral soundness of the modern novel,[64]
on the integrity of individual artists, as well as the claims of aesthetes like as Oscar Wilde and Algernon Charles Swinburne, who proposed the idea of "art for art's sake".[65]

In this period the market for popular fiction grew, and competed with works of literature. Also in the 19th-century new institutions like the circulating library create a new market, and a new mass
reading public developed.[66]

Also during the 19th century major British writers such as Charles Dickens[67] and Thomas Hardy [68] were influenced by the romance genre tradition of the novel. The Bronte sisters were notable
mid-19th-century creators in this tradition, with Anne Bronte's The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre and Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights.[69] Publishing at the very end of the
19th century, Joseph Conrad has been called, "a supreme 'romancer'".[70] In America "the romance ... proved to be a serious, flexible, and successful medium for the exploration of philosophical ideas
and attitudes", and notable examples include Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter, and Herman Melville's Moby-Dick.[47]

A number of European novelists were influenced, during this period, by the earlier Romantic Movement, including Victor Hugo, with novels like The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (1831) and Les Miserables
(1862), and Mikhail Yuryevich Lermontov's, A Hero of Our Time (1840).

Many 19th century authors dealt with significant social matters.[71] Emile Zola's novels depicted the world of the working classes, which Marx and Engels's non-fictional explores. In the United States
slavery and racism became topics of far broader public debate thanks to Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin (1852), which dramatises topics that had previously been discussed mainly in the
abstract. Charles Dickens' novels led his readers into contemporary workhouses, and provided first hand accounts of child labour. The treatment of the subject of war changed with Leo Tolstoy's War and
Peace (1868/69), where he questions the facts provided by historians. Similarly the treatment of crime is very different in Fyodor Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment (1866), where the point of view is
that of a criminal. Women authors had dominated fiction from the 1640s into the early 18th century, but few before George Eliot so openly questioned the role, education, and status of women in
society, as she did.

As the novel became a platform of modern debate, national literatures were developed, that link the present with the past in the form of the historical novel. Alessandro Manzoni's I Promessi Sposi
(1827) did this for Italy, while novelists in Russia and the surrounding Slavonic countries, as well as Scandinavia, did likewise.

Along with this new appreciation of history, the future also became a topic for fiction. This had been done earlier in works like Samuel Madden's Memoirs of the Twentieth Century (1733) and Mary
Shelley's The Last Man (1826), a work whose plot culminated in the catastrophic last days of a mankind extinguished by the plague. Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward (1887) and H. G. Wells's The Time
Machine (1895) were concerned with technological and biological developments. Industrialization, Darwin's theory of evolution and Marx's theory of class divisions shaped these works and turned
historical processes into a subject matter of wide debate. Bellamy's Looking Backward became the second best-selling book of the 19th century after Harriet Beecher-Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin.[72][note
20] Such works led to the development of a whole genre of popular science fiction as the 20th century approached.

The 20th century and later
==========================

Modernism and post-modernism
----------------------------
James Joyce's Ulysses (1922) had a major influence on modern novelists, in the way that it replaced the 18th- and 19th-century narrator with a text that attempted to record inner thoughts: a "stream
of consciousness". This term was first used by William James in1890 and is used (or the related interior monologue) by modernists like Dorothy Richardson, Marcel Proust, as well as, later Virginia
Woolf and William Faulkner.[73] Also in the 1920s expressionist Alfred Doblin went in a different direction with Berlin Alexanderplatz (1929), where interspersed non-fictional text fragments exist
alongside the fictional material to create another new form of realism, which differs from that of stream-of-consciousness.

Later works like Samuel Beckett's trilogy Molloy (1951), Malone Dies (1951) and The Unnamable (1953), as well as Julio Cortazar's Rayuela (1963) and Thomas Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow (1973) all make
use of the stream-of-consciousness technique. On the other hand, Robert Coover is an example of those authors, who the 1960s, fragmented their stories and challenged time and sequentiality as
fundamental structural concepts.

The 20th century novels deals with a wide range of subject matter. Erich Maria Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front (1928) focusses on young German's experiences of World War I (and the more
existentialist Thor Goote created as a national socialist alternative). The Jazz Age is explored by American F. Scott Fitzgerald, and the Great Depression by fellow American John Steinbeck. The rise
of totalitarian states is the subject of British writer George Orwell. France's existentialism is the subject of French writers Jean-Paul Sartre's Nausea (1938) and Albert Camus' The Stranger (1942).
The counterculture of the 1960s led to revived interest in Hermann Hesse's Steppenwolf (1927), and produced such iconic works of its own like Ken Kesey's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Thomas
Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow. Chuck Palahniuk's Fight Club (1996) (with the help of the film adaptation) is a male response to feminist politics. Virginia Woolf, Simone de Beauvoir, Doris Lessing,
Elfriede Jelinek were feminist voices during this period. Novelist have also been interested in the subject of racial and gender identity in recent decades.[74]

Furthermore, the major political and military confrontations of the 20th and 21st centuries have also influenced novelists. The events of World War II, from a German perspective, are dealt with by
Gunter Grass' The Tin Drum (1959) and an American by Joseph Heller's Catch-22 (1961). The subsequent Cold War influenced popular spy novels. Latin American self-awareness in the wake of the (failing)
left revolutions of the 1960s and 1970s resulted in a "Latin American Boom", linked to with the names of novelists Julio Cortazar, Mario Vargas Llosa, Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, along
with the invention of a special brand of postmodern magic realism. .

Another major 20th-century social events, the so-called sexual revolution is reflected in the modern novel.[note 21] D. H. Lawrence's Lady Chatterley's Lover had to be published in Italy in 1928;
British censorship lifted its ban as late as 1960. Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer (1934) created the comparable US scandal. Transgressive fiction from Vladimir Nabokov's Lolita (1955) to Michel
Houellebecq's Les Particules elementaires (1998) entered a literary field that eventually led to more pornographic works such as Anne Desclos' Story of O (1954) to Anais Nin's Delta of Venus (1978).

In the second half of the 20th century, Postmodern authors subverted serious debate with playfulness, claiming that art could never be original, that it always plays with existing materials.[75] The
idea that language is self-referential was already an accepted truth in the world of pulp fiction. A postmodernist re-reads popular literature as an essential cultural production. Novels from Thomas
Pynchon's The Crying of Lot 49 (1966), to Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose (1980) and Foucault's Pendulum (1989) made use of intertextual references[76][77]

Genre fiction
-------------
The historic advantage of genres is to allow the direct marketing of fiction. While the reader of so-called elitist literature will follow public discussions of novels, the popular production has to
employ the traditionally more direct and short-term marketing strategies with the open declarations of their content. The most popular novels are based entirely on the expectations for the particular
genre, and this includes the creation of a series of novels with an identifiable brand name. i.e. the Sherlock Holmes series by Arthur Conan Doyle

Popular literature holds the largest market share. Romance fiction had an estimated $1.375 billion share in the US book market in 2007. Inspirational literature/religious literature followed with $819
million, science fiction/fantasy with $700 million, mystery with $650 million and then classic literary fiction with $466 million.[78]

Popular literature might be seen as the successor of the early modern chapbook. Both fields share a focus on readers who are in search of accessible reading satisfaction.<[79] The 20th-century love
romance is a successor of the novels Madeleine de Scudery, Marie de La Fayette, Aphra Behn, and Eliza Haywood wrote from the 1640s into the 1740s. The modern adventure novel goes back to Daniel
Defoe's Robinson Crusoe (1719) and its immediate successors. Modern pornography has no precedent in the chapbook market but originates in libertine and hedonistic belles lettres, of works likeJohn
Cleland's Fanny Hill (1749) and similar eighteenth century novels. Ian Fleming's James Bond is a descendant of the anonymous yet extremely sophisticated and stylish narrator who mixed his love affairs
with his political missions in La Guerre d'Espagne (1707). Marion Zimmer Bradley's The Mists of Avalon is influenced by Tolkien, as well as Arthurian literature, including its 19th-century successors.
Modern horror fiction also has no precedent on the market of chapbooks but goes back to the elitist market of early-19th-century Romantic literature. Modern popular science fiction has an even shorter
history, from the 1860s.

The authors of popular fiction tend to proclaim that they have exploited the controversial topics – and that is the essential difference between them and so-called elitist literature. Dan Brown does
this by discussing on his website the question whether his Da Vinci Code is an anti-Christian novel.[80]

The author of popular fiction has a fan community to serve, so that she or he can risk rebuffing the literary critic. However, the artificial boundaries between popular and serious literature have
blurred in recent years, through the explorations of postmodern and poststructuralist writers, as well as by adaptation of popular literary classics by the film industry.

Crime became a major subject of 20th and 21st century genre novelists and Crime fiction reflects the realities of modern industrialized societies. Crime is personal and public subject: criminals each
have their personal motivations; detectives, see their moral codes challenged. Patricia Highsmith's thrillers became a medium of new psychological explorations. Paul Auster's New York Trilogy
(1985–1986) is an example of experimental postmodernist literature.

Fantasy has become a major area of commercial fiction. A major example is J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings (1954/55), a work that mutated from a book written for young readers in search of
openly fictionalised role models into a major cultural artefact. Tolkien successfully revived European epic literature from Beowulf and the North Germanic Edda as well as the Arthurian Cycles.
 
Science fiction has developed a variety of genres from the early, technological adventure Jules Verne had made fashionable in the 1860s. Aldous Huxley's Brave New World (1932) has become a focus for
debate about Western consumerism and technology. George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949) deals with totalitarianism and surveillance, among other matters. Stanislaw Lem, Isaac Asimov and Arthur C.
Clarke produced modern classics which focus on the interaction between humans and machines. A new wave of authors explore post-apocalyptic fantasies and virtual reality. William Gibson's Neuromancer
(1984) became a cult classic and founded cyberpunk science fiction.